F5 301a Introduction
====================

|

**F5 - 301a Local Traffic Manager Specialist Exam**

The F5 BIG-IP Local Traffic Manager (LTM) increases an application’s
operational efficiency and ensures peak network performance by providing
a flexible, high-performance application delivery system. With its
application-centric perspective, LTM optimizes your network
infrastructure to deliver availability, security, and performance for
critical business applications. Although the Exam Blueprint is not
written in a structure that presents topics in an educational order, it
does provide all of the necessary building blocks. The Certified LTM
Training classes from F5 will help with many of the scenario-based
topics on the test. An LTM Specialist must be proficient with all
aspects Architecture, Setup and Deployment of the LTM within a network.

https://support.f5.com/content/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-tmsh-11-5-0/_jcr_content/pdfAttach/download/file.res/bigip-tmsh-11-5-0.pdf

**Traffic Management Shell**

Although it is not mentioned in the blueprint as a requirement, a
candidate should not focus only on the GUI interface for management of
the LTM platform. Some test questions will refer to the command line
interface (CLI) TMSH commands. You should take time to understand where
in the CLI that common commands are issued so you can not only correctly
answer the questions presented on the exam but also have enough
knowledge of the CLI structure to eliminate bad commands from your
question’s answer choices.

Try building your training lab environment from command line to gain CLI
proficiency.

|
|

Section 1 - Architect and Deply Applications
============================================

|
|

Objective - 1.01 - Given an expected traffic volume, determine the appropriate SNAT configuration
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.01 – Explain when SNAT is required**

`K7820: Overview of SNAT features <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K7820?sr=29125585>`__

**What is SNAT and when is it required?**

A Secure Network Address Translation (SNAT) is a configuration object
that maps the source client IP address in a request to a translation
address defined on the BIG-IP device. When the BIG-IP system receives a
request from a client, and if the client IP address in the request is
defined in the origin address list for the SNAT, the BIG-IP system
translates the source IP address of the incoming packet to the SNAT
address.

A SNAT can be used by itself to pass traffic that is not destined for a
virtual server. For example, you can use a SNAT object to pass certain
traffic (such as DNS requests) from an internal network to an external
network where your DNS server resides. A SNAT can also be used in
conjunction with a virtual server to translate the source IP address of
an incoming packet (with no SNAT configured, no source address
translation takes place, and destination address translation takes place
as separately configured in the Virtual Server properties). You can also
use a SNAT to ensure that response traffic is returned through the
BIG-IP system without requiring other outbound non-load balanced traffic
to also route through the BIG-IP system, and without requiring any
changes in the router or server's configuration. SNAT is also a critical
component in one-armed configurations, preventing the server from
responding directly to the client.

Port exhaustion or collisions may occur under heavy usage or special
client traffic patterns. As a result, connections that cannot be
translated due to lack of available ports on a given translation address
may be dropped.

When a SNAT is configured on the BIG-IP system (either by itself or in
conjunction with a virtual server), the source address of each
connection is translated to a configured SNAT address, and the source
port is mapped to a port currently available for that address. By
default, the BIG-IP system attempts to preserve the source port, but if
the port is already in use on the selected translation address, the
system also translates the source port.

Each SNAT address, like any IP address, has only **65535** ports
available. This is a limit of the TCP and User Datagram Protocol (UDP)
protocols, since they use a 16-bit unsigned integer (thus ranging from 0
to 65535) to specify the source and destination ports. However, each
SNAT address can potentially have to process more than 65535 concurrent
connections, as long as each socket pair is unique. A socket pair is
defined by a 4-tuple structure consisting of the following elements:

-  Source IP address

-  Source port

-  Destination IP address

-  Destination port

For example, a given SNAT address can continue to use the same source
port as long as the remote socket is unique, thus allowing the SNAT
address to process more than 65535 concurrent connections.

For example:

SNAT address and port Remote socket
::

   -  10.1.1.1:1234 -------------> 10.1.1.200:80
   
   -  10.1.1.1:1234 -------------> 10.1.1.201:80
   
   -  10.1.1.1:1234 -------------> 10.1.1.200:8080
   
   -  10.1.1.1:1234 -------------> 10.1.1.201:8080

Note: When SNAT is used in conjunction with a virtual server that load
balances connections to a pool; the remote socket is the IP address and
port of the chosen pool member. Therefore, assuming a certain SNAT
address is configured on only one virtual server, the SNAT address is
able to process approximately 65535 concurrent connections for each pool
member in the pool (each unique remote socket).

While the uniqueness of remote sockets depends entirely on your specific
configuration and traffic, for simplicity you should think of 65535
concurrent connections as the maximum capacity for any given SNAT
address. *If you think more than 65535 connections may require
translation, you should configure more SNAT addresses (for example,
using a SNAT pool).*

----

|

**1.01 – Describe the benefit of using SNAT pools**

`K7820: Overview of SNAT features <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K7820?sr=29125585>`__

**SNAT Pools**

A SNAT pool represents a logical group of translation addresses that you
configure on the BIG-IP system.

When a single IP address is used to SNAT traffic, it has a limit of
65535 ports that can be used for port mapping on the IP address. SNAT
connections can fail if a large number of client requests are traversing
a SNAT, which is using a single IP address. This will show up in the
event logs on the BIG-IP as Port Exhaustion errors.

To mitigate port exhaustion, create SNAT pools or use SNAT Automap (with
an appropriate number of self-IP addresses on the VLAN) to support the
expected level of concurrent connections. Configuring a SNAT pool as the
translation allows the SNAT function to map client connections to more
than one IP address from the SNAT pool, thus increasing the total
available ports likewise the supported client connections.

You can build a SNAT pool for a SNAT to use as the translation addresses
and the BIG-IP will use an IP addresses from the pool in a Least
Connections fashion.

Since the SNAT function is intelligent enough to know what address from
the pool can be used for the address translation in each egress
scenario; a SNAT pool can contain addresses from more than one egress
network. This will allow you to build less SNAT pools by allowing you to
mix the egress network addresses in one pool if you desire.

----

|

**1.01 – Describe the difference of SNAT object types**

`K7820: Overview of SNAT features <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K7820?sr=29125585>`__

**Types of SNATs**

Standard SNATs and intelligent SNATs are illustrated in the following
sections:

**Standard SNATs**

The following three examples illustrate three types of standard SNATs:

A SNAT in which you specify a specific translation address

One way to create a SNAT is to directly map one or more original IP
address to a specific translation address that you choose. For the SNAT
origin address, you can specify host addresses, network addresses, or a
wildcard that matches all addresses. For example, the following SNAT
configuration translates the address of connections that originate from
the address 10.10.10.1 to the translation address 172.16.0.1:
::

   ltm snat /Common/test\_snat {
   origins {
   10.10.10.1/32 { }
   }
   translation /Common/172.16.0.1
   }

*Automap SNAT*

Of the available SNAT options, SNAT automap is often preferred because
it is simple to configure and maintain, and helps conserve IP addresses
by using the BIG-IP system's existing self IP addresses.

When the BIG-IP system processes connections from the origin IP
addresses matching a SNAT automap definition, it chooses a translation
address from the available self IP addresses. Floating self IP addresses
on the egress Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN) are preferred to support
seamless failover. If multiple floating self IP addresses are configured
on the VLAN, the BIG-IP system translates the address of client
connections by alternating through a pool of all floating self IPs on
the VLAN.

Note: The SNAT automap feature may not use the intended translation
address if a floating self IP is not available on the egress VLAN, or
the floating self IP address was originally a static self IP address.
For more information, refer to K7336: The SNAT Automap and self IP
address selection.

For example, the following SNAT configuration translates the address of
connections that originate from the address 10.10.10.1 to one of the
system's self IP addresses:
::

   ltm snat /Common/test\_snat {
   automap
   origins {
   10.10.10.1/32 { }
   }
   }

*SNAT pools*

A SNAT pool represents a pool of translation addresses that you
configure on the BIG-IP system. The original IP address is then mapped
to the entire translation pool, called a SNAT pool. For example, the
following SNAT pool configuration contains the translation addresses
172.16.0.1 and 172.16.0.2:
::

   ltm snatpool /Common/my\_snatpool {
   members {
   /Common/172.16.0.1
   /Common/172.16.0.2
   }
   }

After you create the SNAT pool, you must associate it with a SNAT
object. For example, the following SNAT configuration translates the
address of connections that originate from the address 10.10.10.1 to one
of the IP addresses in the SNAT pool:
::

   ltm snat /Common/test\_snatpool {
   origins {
   10.10.10.1/32 { }
   }
   snatpool /Common/my\_snatpool
   }

Important: When using a SNAT pool with IP addresses from the egress VLAN (the VLAN
for which the packet exits in the BIG-IP system) and non-egress VLAN
networks, the egress VLAN network address is given higher priority. For
example, egress VLAN external has a self IP of 172.16.0.254/24, and SNAT
pool member addresses of 172.16.0.1/24 and 10.1.1.1/24. The BIG-IP
system prefers the egress VLAN SNAT pool member address 172.16.0.1, and
will continue to use the same address until it becomes unavailable.

Note: The BIG-IP system load balances SNAT pool connections between
members using the least connections algorithm.

**Intelligent SNATs**

An intelligent SNAT is the mapping of one or more original client IP
address to a translation address. However, you implement this type of
SNAT mapping within an iRule. An intelligent SNAT allows the BIG-IP
system to base its selection of a translation address on any piece of
packet data that you specify. This piece of data could be the original
client IP address, or it could be another piece of data in the packet,
such as a server port or an HTTP cookie.

To configure an intelligent SNAT, you must complete the following tasks:

- Determine the type of packet data that the BIG-IP system uses as a basis for selecting a translation address, such as the server port.

- Create the SNAT or SNAT pools that the BIG-IP system uses to select a translation address.

- Assign the iRule as a resource to the virtual server.

The following two examples illustrate mapping original client IP
addresses to a translation address using an iRule:

Example 1

If you want the BIG-IP system to base its selection of a translation
address on the destination port, you would first create a data group
that contains the destination ports, and then create the iRule that
applies the SNAT translation address to connections using a port
specified in the data group. After you have created the data group and
SNAT, you must assign the iRule as a resource to the virtual server. The
following TMOS Shell (tmsh) command creates a data group called Ports,
containing ports 80, 81, and 8080:
::

   tmsh create /ltm data-group Ports type string records add { 80 81 8080 }

After you create the data group, create the iRule that applies the SNAT
translation address to connections using ports from the Ports data
group. The following iRule examples apply the SNAT translation address
of 172.16.0.1 to connections using ports from the Ports data group:
::

   when CLIENT\_ACCEPTED {
   if { [class match [TCP::local\_port] equals Ports]} {
   snat 172.16.0.1
   }
   }

Example 2

If you want the BIG-IP system to base its selection of a translation
address on the client/source IP address and the destination port, and
then forward unchanged traffic that does not match this criteria, you
would first create two data groups that contain the client/source IP
addresses and destination ports respectively, and then create the iRule
that would apply the SNAT translation address.

The following tmsh command creates a data group called Hosts, which
contains IP addresses 10.10.10.1, 10.10.10.2, and 10.10.10.3:
::

   tmsh create /ltm data-group Hosts type ip records add { 10.10.10.1 10.10.10.2 10.10.10.3 }

The following tmsh command creates a data group called Ports, which
contains ports 80 and 8080:
::

   tmsh create /ltm data-group Ports type string records add { 80 8080 }

After you create the data groups, create the iRule that applies the SNAT
translation address to connections using IP addresses and ports from the
Hosts and Ports data groups, and forward all other connections. The
following iRule example apply the SNAT translation address of 172.16.0.1
to connections using IP addresses and ports fro
m the Hosts and Ports
data groups, and forward all other connections:
::

   when CLIENT\_ACCEPTED {
   if { [class match [IP::client\_addr] equals Hosts]} {
   if { [class match [TCP::local\_port] equals Ports]} {
   snat 172.16.0.1
   } else {
   forward
   }
   }
   }

|

Objective - 1.02 - Given a scenario, determine the minimum profiles for an application
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.02 - (Supplemental Example) Given a scenario, determine the minimum profiles for an application**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/6.html

This topic is focused on assigning profiles to a virtual server
configuration for the functionality of application using that virtual
server. Understanding how why profiles are necessary and what
requirements the applications have for the processing of the application
traffic is the key to this topic. Experience with configuring virtual
servers will give the candidate the ability to answer the questions on
this topic.

Profiles are a configuration tool that you can use to affect the
behavior of certain types of network traffic. More specifically, a
profile is an object that contains settings with values, for controlling
the behavior of a particular type of network traffic, such as HTTP
connections. Profiles also provide a way for you to enable connection
and session persistence, and to manage client application
authentication.

By default, Local Traffic Manager provides you with a set of profiles
that you can use as is. These default profiles contain various settings
with default values that define the behavior of different types of
traffic. If you want to change those values to better suit the needs of
your network environment, you can create a custom profile. A custom
profile is a profile derived from a default profile and contains values
that you specify.

You can use profiles in the following ways:

You can use the default profiles, which means that you do not need to
actively configure any profile settings. Local Traffic Manager uses them
to automatically direct the corresponding traffic types according to the
values specified in those profiles.

You can create a custom profile, using the default profile as the parent
profile, modifying some or all of the values defined in that profile.

You can create a custom profile to use as a parent profile for other
custom profiles.

After configuring a profile, you associate the profile with a virtual
server. The virtual server then processes traffic according to the
values specified in the profile. Using profiles enhances your control
over managing network traffic, and makes traffic-management tasks easier
and more efficient.

You can associate multiple profiles with a single virtual server. For
example, you can associate a TCP profile, an SSL profile, and an HTTP
profile with the same virtual server.

At a minimum, a virtual server must reference a profile, and that
profile must be associated with a UDP, FastL4, Fast HTTP, or TCP profile
type. Thus, if you have not associated a profile with the virtual
server, Local Traffic Manager adds a udp, fastl4, fasthttp, or tcp
default profile to the profile list.

The default profile that Local Traffic Manager chooses depends on the
configuration of the virtual server’s protocol setting. For example, if
the protocol setting is set to UDP, Local Traffic Manager adds the udp
profile to its profile list.

----

|

**1.02 - Explain security options available for the application**

**Virtual Server Security**

A virtual server is essentially a listener that will be taking in and
processing traffic on the BIG-IP platform. Some of the biggest security
risks when configuring a virtual server are how it is listening, where
it is listening and who can get to it. If you are configuring virtual
server and not setting the necessary settings to restrict these areas of
concern you are opening yourself up to security risks.

**How Is the Virtual Server Listening?**

The broader you set a virtual server to listen the greater the risk of
unintended inbound traffic. An application based virtual server should
typically be configured to listen on the default port for the
application. For example, if you are configuring a virtual server for a
new HTTP based website you would listen on port 80. If you listen on all
ports (\*), the virtual server will take in traffic destine for the
virtual server on all 65535 ports of the IP address. And if the pool
members for the virtual server are also listening on all ports (\*), it
will send traffic to the servers on the port it arrived on the virtual
server.

If you need to listen on multiple ports for the same IP address you can
approach this in two different ways. You can build a virtual server for
each necessary port using the same IP address or you can build one
virtual server on all ports and use an iRule to restrict the allowed
inbound connections to your list of ports.

**Where is the Virtual Server Listening?**

When you configure a virtual server, you tell the BIG-IP where you want
it to listen for traffic destined for the IP address of the virtual
server. This virtual server setting is the VLAN and Tunnel Traffic
setting. By default, the setting is set to All VLANs and Tunnels. Which
means the BIG-IP will listen on all VLANs. You are probably thinking,
ARP is only going to happen on the local subnet’s VLAN, which is true.
So, what can it possibly mean to listen on all VLANs? When this setting
is set to all VLANs it means that if traffic comes to BIG-IP destined
for the virtual server address from a VLAN that is not the VLAN of the
virtual server IP address, it will still take the traffic in on VLAN
interface that it arrived on. BIG-IP is a default deny device but in
setting the setting to All VLANS and Tunnels you have told the system to
listen on all VLANs for traffic to the virtual server and allow it in.

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip\_ltm/manuals/product/tmos-concepts-11-5-0/14.html#conceptid

**Packet Filters**

Packet filters enhance network security by specifying whether a BIG-IP
system interface should accept or reject certain packets based on
criteria that you specify. Packet filters enforce an access policy on
incoming traffic. They apply to incoming traffic only.

You implement packet filtering by creating packet filter rules, using
the BIG-IP Configuration utility. The primary purpose of a packet filter
rule is to define the criteria that you want the BIG-IP system to use
when filtering packets. Examples of criteria that you can specify in a
packet filter rule are:

-  The source IP address of a packet

-  The destination IP address of a packet

-  The destination port of a packet

You specify the criteria for applying packet filter rules within an
expression. When creating a packet filter rule, you can instruct the
BIG-IP system to build an expression for you, in which case you need
only choose the criteria from predefined lists, or you can write your
own expression text, using the syntax of the tcpdump utility. For more
information on the tcpdump utility, see the online man page for the
tcpdump command.

You can also configure global packet filtering that applies to all
packet filter rules that you create. The hyperlink of this section will
describe how to use the Configuration utility to set global packet
filtering options, as well as create and manage individual packet
filters rules.

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/18.html#conceptid

**iRules**

You can use iRules to restrict traffic in almost any way you can think
of. You can set an iRule to keep connections from happening when coming
from a certain IP address range or to a certain URI path in the HTTP
request.

----

|

**1.02 - Explain how to use LTM as a service proxy**

Since the F5 BIG-IP platform is designed as a full-proxy architecture
the LTM can act as a proxy for any service level connection.

You define the virtual server as a Standard virtual server that is
listening on an IP address and port combination, which represents the
application to the client. The virtual server should be configured with
an appropriate layer-4 profile, any optional layer-7 protocol profiles
you need and a pool for a resource. The LTM will then broker separate
layer-4 connections for the client and server sides. The server side
connections will be translated from the listening IP address and port
combination of the virtual server to the IP address and port combination
of the pool member that the connection will be sent to via the
load-balancing algorithm of the pool.

The return traffic must flow through the BIG-IP to be correctly
rewritten as it passes back to the client. The return traffic will be
rewritten from the IP address and port combination of the pool member
that received the inbound connection to the IP address and port
combination of the virtual server that the client connected to when the
connection was established.

|

`K8082: Overview of TCP connection setup for BIG-IP LTM virtual server types <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K8082?sr=42818238#standard>`__

**Standard virtual server**

The BIG-IP LTM TMOS operating system implements a full proxy
architecture for virtual servers configured with a TCP profile. By
assigning a custom TCP profile to the virtual server, you can configure
the BIG-IP LTM system to maintain compatibility to disparate server
operating systems in the data center. At the same time, the BIG-IP LTM
system can leverage its TCP/IP stack on the client side of the
connection to provide independent and optimized TCP connections to
client systems.

In a full proxy architecture, the BIG-IP LTM system appears as a TCP
peer to both the client and the server by associating two independent
TCP connections with the end-to-end session. Although certain client
information, such as the source IP address or source TCP port, may be
re-used on the server side of the connection, the BIG-IP LTM system
manages the two sessions independently, making itself transparent to the
client and server.

The Standard virtual server requires a TCP or UDP profile, and may
optionally be configured with HTTP, FTP, or SSL profiles if Layer 7 or
SSL processing is required.

The TCP connection setup behavior for a Standard virtual server varies
depending on whether a TCP profile or a TCP and Layer 7 profile, such as
HTTP, is associated with the virtual server.

**Standard virtual server with a TCP profile**

The TCP connection setup behavior for a Standard virtual server operates
as follows: the three-way TCP handshake occurs on the client side of the
connection before the BIG-IP LTM system initiates the TCP handshake on
the server side of the connection.

A Standard virtual server processes connections using the full proxy
architecture. The following TCP flow diagram illustrates the TCP
handshake for a Standard virtual server with a TCP profile:

|

.. image:: /_static/301a/p1.jpeg

|

**Standard virtual server with Layer 7 functionality**

If a Standard virtual server is configured with Layer 7 functionality,
such as an HTTP profile, the client must send at least one data packet
before the server-side connection can be initiated by the BIG-IP LTM
system.

Note: The BIG-IP LTM system may initiate the server-side connection
prior to the first data packet for certain Layer 7 applications, such as
FTP, in which case the user waits for a greeting banner before sending
any data.

The TCP connection setup behavior for a Standard virtual server with
Layer 7 functionality operates as follows: the three-way TCP handshake
and initial data packet are processed on the client side of the
connection before the BIG-IP LTM system initiates the TCP handshake on
the server side of the connection.

A Standard virtual server with Layer 7 functionality processes
connections using the full proxy architecture. The following TCP flow
diagram illustrates the TCP handshake for a Standard virtual server with
Layer 7 functionality:

|

.. image:: /_static/301a/p2.jpeg

----

|

**1.02 - Describe how a given service is deployed on an LTM**

`K4707: Choosing appropriate profiles for HTTP traffic <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K4707?sr=28929465>`__

**Processing HTTP traffic**

The BIG-IP system allows you to process HTTP traffic using various
profiles, including TCP+HTTP, FastHTTP, and FastL4. Each profile, or
combination of profiles, offers distinct advantages, limitations, and
features.

F5 recommends that you assess the needs of each HTTP virtual server
individually, using the following information, to determine which
profile, or profile combination, best meets the requirements for each
virtual server.

*Important*: The HTTP profile will work in all cases; however, the
HTTP profile places BIG-IP in full Layer 7 inspection mode, which
may be unnecessary when used on simple load balancing virtual
servers. Thus, you should consider the other profile options
provided in instances where the full Layer 7 engine is not necessary
for a particular virtual server.

**TCP+HTTP**

*Profiles:* TCP+HTTP

*Advantage:* The HTTP profile can take full advantage of all of BIG-IP
system's Layers 4 - 7 HTTP/HTTPS features.

*When to use:* The HTTP profile is used when any of the following
features are required:

-  IPv6 support

-  TCPexpress and content spooling features reduce server load

-  Full OneConnect functionality (including HTTP 1.0 transformations)

-  Layer 7 persistence (cookie, hash, universal, and iRule)

-  Full HTTP iRules logic

-  Cache and Web Acceleration features

-  HTTP Compression

-  HTTP pipelining

-  Virtual Server Authentication

-  Redirect Rewriting

-  SPDY protocol support (11.3.0 and later)

|

*Limitations*

-  More CPU-intensive

-  Memory utilization:

-  Cache / Web Acceleration - The caching / web acceleration features provision user-defined memory for cache content for each virtual server that uses the given HTTP and Cache profiles.

-  Compression - Larger buffer sizes can increase memory utilization when compressing large objects.

-  TCP offloading/content spooling - This can increase memory utilization in cases where either the client-side or the server-side of the connection is slower than the other. The BIG-IP system holds the data in the buffer until the slower side of the connection is able to retrieve it.

|

**HTTP/2**

Note: The HTTP/2 profile requires that you apply a TCP, HTTP, and
client-side SSL profile to the virtual server.

Advantage: The HTTP/2 profile allows you to take advantage of the
improvements provided by the Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2
specification (RFC7540 and RFC7541).

When to use: The HTTP/2 profile allows the BIG-IP system to serve as a
gateway for HTTP/2 traffic. By multiplexing streams and compressing
headers, the perceived latency of requests and responses is reduced and
the overall efficiency of the network is improved. The HTTP/2 profile
can be used to provide the following:

-  Multiplexed request/response streams with flow control for improved
   network utilization

-  Automatic header compression

-  Binary instead of textual message framing for efficient message
   processing

-  Support for SPDY, HTTP/1.1, and HTTP/2 protocol selection

-  Proactive server response push to client

-  iRules logic for HTTP/2

Limitations

-  Header compression consumes CPU and memory resources

-  No support for source address persistence

-  Not compatible with NTLM protocols.

-  Not compatible with SSL profile (Client) renegotiation.

**FastHTTP**

*Profile:* FastHTTP

*Advantage:* Faster than HTTP profile

*When to use:* FastHTTP profile is recommended when it is not necessary
to use persistence and or maintain source IP addresses. FastHTTP also
adds a subset of OneConnect features to reduce the number of connections
opened to the backend HTTP servers. The FastHTTP profile requires that
the clients' source addresses are translated. If an explicit SNAT or
SNAT pool is not specified, the appropriate self IP address is used.

Note: Typically, server efficiency increases as the number of SNAT addresses that are available to the virtual server increases. At the
same time, the increase in SNAT addresses that are available to the
virtual server also decreases the likelihood that the virtual server
will reach the point of ephemeral port exhaustion (65535 open
connections per SNAT address).

*Limitations*

-  Requires client source address translation

-  Not compatible with persistence until version 10.0.0

-  Limited iRules support L4 and are limited to a subset of HTTP header
   operations, and pool/pool member selection

-  No compression

-  No virtual server authentication

-  No support for HTTP pipelining

-  No TCP optimizations

-  No IPv6 support

Note: FastHTTP is optimized for ideal traffic conditions, but may
not be an appropriate profile to use when network conditions are
less than optimal. For more information about the FastHTTP profile,
refer to SOL8024: Overview of the FastHTTP profile.

**FastL4**

*Profile:* FastL4

*Advantage:* Accelerates packet processing

*When to use:* FastL4 is limited in functionality to socket level
decisions (for example, src\_ip:port dst\_ip:port). Thus, you can use
FastL4 only when socket level information for each connection is
required for the virtual server.

*Limitations*

-  No HTTP optimizations

-  No TCP optimizations for server offloading

-  SNAT/SNAT pools demote PVA acceleration setting level to Assisted

-  iRules limited to L4 events, such as CLIENT\_ACCEPTED and
   SERVER\_CONNECTED

-  No OneConnect

-  Limited persistence options:

-  Source address

-  Destination address

-  Universal

-  Hash (BIG-IP 9.x only)

-  No compression

-  No Virtual Server Authentication

-  No support for HTTP pipelining

|


Objective - 1.03 - Given an application configuration, determine which functions can be offloaded to the LTM device
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|

**1.03 – Explain how to offload HTTP servers for SSL, compression and caching**

**Offloading**

One of the most prominent advantages to having a BIG-IP platform in your
network is that it can offload functions from the server environment to
improve their performance. SSL termination, HTTP compression and RAM
Caching are a few of the primary functions

Each of these optimizations are configurations that are completed in
profiles assigned to the virtual server.

|

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-ssl-administration-11-5-0/3.html#unique_2115148650

**SSL Offload**

When you want the BIG-IP system to process application traffic over SSL,
you can configure the system to perform the SSL handshake that
destination servers normally perform. This ability for the BIG-IP system
to offload SSL processing from a destination server is an important
feature of the BIG-IP system.

The most common way to configure the BIG-IP system is to create a Client
SSL profile, which makes it possible for the BIG-IP system to decrypt
client requests before sending them on to a server, and encrypt server
responses before sending them back to the client.

Within a Client SSL profile specifically, you can specify multiple
certificate/key pairs, one per key type. This enables the system to
accept all types of cipher suites that a client might support as part of
creating a secure connection. The system then decrypts the client data,
manipulates any headers or payload according to the way that you
configured the Client SSL profile, and by default, sends the request in
clear text to the target server for processing.

For those sites that require enhanced security on their internal
network, you can configure a Server SSL profile. With a Server SSL
profile, the BIG-IP system re-encrypts the request before sending it to
the destination server. When the server returns an encrypted response,
the BIG-IP system decrypts and then re-encrypts the response, before
sending the response back to the client.

|

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-implementations-11-5-0/20.html

**HTTP compression**

An optional feature of the BIG-IP system is the system’s ability to
off-load HTTP compression tasks from the target server. All of the tasks
that you need to configure HTTP compression, as well as the compression
software itself, are centralized on the BIG-IP system. The primary way
to enable HTTP compression is by configuring an HTTP Compression type of
profile and then assigning the profile to a virtual server. This causes
the system to compress HTTP content for any responses matching the
values that you specify in the Request-URI or Content-Type settings of
the HTTP Compression profile.

**Configuration**

You should be familiar with how the configuration of HTTP Compression
looks in the CLI Configuration as well as in the GUI.

To configure HTTP data compression, you need to create an HTTP
compression type of profile, as well as a virtual server.

Creating a customized HTTP compression profile

If you need to adjust the compression settings to optimize compression
for your environment, you can modify a custom HTTP compression profile.

1. On the Main tab, click Acceleration > Profiles > HTTP Compression.
   The HTTP Compression profile list screen opens.

2. Click Create. The New HTTP Compression profile screen opens.

3. In the Name field, type a unique name for the profile.

4. From the Parent Profile list, select one of the following profiles:

   -  httpcompression.

   -  wan-optimized-compression.

5. Select the Custom check box.

6. Modify the settings, as required.

7. Click Finished.

The modified HTTP compression profile is available in the HTTP
Compression list screen.

|

Creating a virtual server for HTTP compression

You can create a virtual server that uses an HTTP profile with an HTTP
compression profile to compress HTTP responses.

1. On the Main tab, click Local Traffic > Virtual Servers. The Virtual
   Server List screen displays a list of existing virtual servers.

2. Click the Create button. The New Virtual Server screen opens.

3. In the Name field, type a unique name for the virtual server.

4. Specify the Destination setting, using the Address field; type the IP
   address you want to use for the virtual server. The IP address you
   type must be available and not in the loopback network.

5. In the Service Port field, type 80, or select HTTP from the list.

6. Select http in the HTTP Profile list.

7. From the HTTP Compression Profile list, select one of the following
   profiles:

   -  httpcompression

   -  wan-optimized-compression

   -  A customized profile

8. In the Resources area of the screen, from the Default Pool list,
   select a pool name.

9. Click Finished.

The virtual server with an HTTP profile configured with an HTTP
compression profile appears in the Virtual Server list.

After you have created a custom HTTP Compression profile and a virtual
server, you can test the configuration by attempting to pass HTTP
traffic through the virtual server. Check to see that the BIG-IP system
includes and excludes the responses that you specified in the custom
profile, and that the system compresses the data as specified.

|

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/f5-tmos-operations-guide.pdf

**BIG-IP Cache**

The BIG-IP Cache Setting feature, formerly known as RAM Cache, uses the
information from the Vary header to cache responses from the origin web
server (OWS). OWS can include information within the Vary header to
determine which resource the server returns in its response.

For example, if a page is optimized for a particular web browser, OWS
response may return the Vary: User-Agent HTTP header. The proxy server
then uses this information to determine whether to return a cached copy
of the response to subsequent requests, or to query the OWS for the
resource again (a subsequent client request containing a different
User-Agent value forces the proxy to query the OWS for the resource
again).

An HTTP cache is a collection of HTTP objects stored in the BIG-IP
system memory which subsequent connections can reuse to reduce traffic
load on the origin web servers. The goal of caching is to reduce the
need to send frequent requests for the same object, and eliminate the
need to send full responses in many cases. You can enable HTTP caching
on the BIG-IP system by associating a Web Acceleration profile with a
virtual server.

Cacheable content

The BIG-IP cache feature complies with the cache specifications
described in RFC 2616. You can configure the BIG-IP system to cache the
following content types:

-  200, 203, 206, 300, 301, and 410 HTTP responses.

-  Responses to HTTP GET requests.

-  Other HTTP methods for uniform resource identifiers (URIs) specified
   for inclusion in cached content, or specified in an iRule.

-  Content based on the User-Agent and Accept-Encoding values. The cache
   feature holds different content for Vary headers.

The default cache configuration caches only responses to HTTP GET
requests. However, you can configure the Web Acceleration pro le to
cache other requests, including non-HTTP requests. To do this, you can
specify a URI in the URI Include or Pin List within an HTTP pro le, or
write an iRule.

Non-cacheable content

The cache feature does not cache the following items:

-  Private data specified by cache control headers.

-  Action-oriented HTTP methods such as HEAD, PUT, DELETE, TRACE, and
   CONNECT.

-  Set-Cookie headers sent by the origin web server.

BIG-IP DNS cache feature

You can configure a transparent cache on the BIG-IP system to use
external DNS resolvers to resolve queries and then cache the responses
from the resolvers. The next time the system receives a query for a
response that exists in the cache, the system immediately returns the
response from the cache. The transparent cache contains messages and
resource records.

A transparent cache in the BIG-IP system consolidates content that would
otherwise be cached across multiple external resolvers. When a
consolidated cache is in front of external resolvers (each with their
own cache), it can produce a much higher cache hit percentage.

BIG-IP AAM optimization cache feature

BIG-IP AAM optimization cache is a self-managing feature. A small amount
of TMM memory is used together with a disk-based datastore/metastore
database. The two ways to view BIG-IP AAM caching behavior are by using
X-WA-Info debug headers and through the dashboard in the Configuration
utility.

----

|

**1.03 – Explain how to configure LTM to handle SSL offload**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-ssl-administration-11-5-0/3.html#unique_2115148650

**SSL Offload**

When you want the BIG-IP system to process application traffic over SSL,
you can configure the system to perform the SSL handshake that
destination servers normally perform. This ability for the BIG-IP system
to offload SSL processing from a destination server is an important
feature of the BIG-IP system.

The most common way to configure the BIG-IP system is to create a Client
SSL profile, which makes it possible for the BIG-IP system to decrypt
client requests before sending them on to a server, and encrypt server
responses before sending them back to the client.

Within a Client SSL profile specifically, you can specify multiple
certificate/key pairs, one per key type. This enables the system to
accept all types of cipher suites that a client might support as part of
creating a secure connection. The system then decrypts the client data,
manipulates any headers or payload according to the way that you
configured the Client SSL profile, and by default, sends the request in
clear text to the target server for processing.

For those sites that require enhanced security on their internal
network, you can configure a Server SSL profile. With a Server SSL
profile, the BIG-IP system re-encrypts the request before sending it to
the destination server. When the server returns an encrypted response,
the BIG-IP system decrypts and then re-encrypts the response, before
sending the response back to the client.

**Creating a custom Client SSL profile**

You create a custom Client SSL profile when you want the BIG-IP system
to terminate client-side SSL traffic for the purpose of decrypting
client-side ingress traffic and encrypting client-side egress traffic.
By terminating client-side SSL traffic, the BIG-IP system offloads these
decryption/encryption functions from the destination server. When you
perform this task, you can specify multiple certificate key chains, one
for each key type (RSA, DSA, and ECDSA). This allows the BIG-IP system
to negotiate secure client connections using different cipher suites
based on the client's preference.

Note: At a minimum, you must specify a certificate key chain that
includes an RSA key pair. Specifying certificate key chains for DSA and
ECDSA key pairs is optional, although highly recommended.

1. On the Main tab, click Local Traffic > Profiles > SSL > Client. The
   Client profile list screen opens.

2. Click Create. The New Client SSL Profile screen opens.

3. In the Name field, type a unique name for the profile.

4. From the Parent Profile list, select clientssl.

5. Select the Custom check box. The settings become available for
   change.

6. Using the Certificate Key Chain setting, specify one or more
   certificate key chains:

   -  From the Certificate list, select a certificate name. This is the name of a certificate that you installed on the BIG-IP system. If you have not generated a certificate request nor installed a certificate on the BIG-IP system, you can specify the name of an existing certificate, default.

   -  From the Key list, select the name of the key associated with the certificate specified in the previous step. This is the name of a key that you installed on the BIG-IP system. If you have not installed a key on the BIG-IP system, you can specify the name of an existing key, default.

   -  From the Chain list, select the chain that you want to include in the certificate key chain. A certificate chain can contain either a series of public key certificates in Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) format or a series of one or more PEM files. A certificate chain can contain certificates for Intermediate certificate Authorities (CAs).

   -  Note: The default self-signed certificate and the default CA bundle certificate are not appropriate for use as a certificate chain.

   -  For the Passphrase field, type a string that enables access to SSL certificate/key pairs that are stored on the BIG-IP system with password protection. This setting is optional. For added security, the BIG-IP system automatically encrypts the pass phrase itself. This pass phrase encryption process is invisible to BIG-IP system administrative users.

   -  Click Add and repeat the process for all certificate key chains that you want to specify.

   -  .. image:: /_static/301a/p3.png

   -  Sample configuration with three key types specified

   -  The result is that all specified key chains appear in the box.

7. If you want to use a cipher suite other than DEFAULT:

   -  From the Configuration list, select Advanced.

   -  For the Ciphers setting, type the name of a cipher. You can specify a particular string to indicate the ciphers that you want the BIG-IP system to use for SSL negotiation, or you can specify ciphers that you do not want the system to use. Examples of cipher values that you can specify are ECDHE and DEFAULT:!ECDHE.

8. Configure all other profile settings as needed.

9. Click Finished.

After performing this task, you can see the custom Client SSL profile in
the list of Client SSL profiles on the system.

You must also assign the profile to a virtual server.

**Creating a custom Server SSL profile**

With an Server SSL profile, the BIG-IP system can perform decryption and
encryption for server-side SSL traffic.

1.  On the Main tab, click Local Traffic > Profiles > SSL > Server. The
    SSL Server profile list screen opens.

2.  Click Create. The New Server SSL Profile screen opens.

3.  In the Name field, type a unique name for the profile.

4.  Select serverssl in the Parent Profile list.

5.  From the Configuration list, select Advanced.

6.  Select the Custom check box. The settings become available for
    change.

7.  From the Certificate list, select the name of an SSL certificate on
    the BIG-IP system.

8.  From the Key list, select the name of an SSL key on the BIG-IP
    system.

9.  In the Pass Phrase field, select a pass phrase that enables access
    to the certificate/key pair on the BIG-IP system.

10. From the Chain list, select the name of an SSL chain on the BIG-IP
    system.

11. If you want to use a cipher suite other than DEFAULT:

    -  From the Configuration list, select Advanced.

    -  For the Ciphers setting, type the name of a cipher. You can specify a particular string to indicate the ciphers that you want the BIG-IP system to use for SSL negotiation, or you can specify ciphers that you do not want the system to use. Examples of cipher values that you can specify are ECDHE and DEFAULT:!ECDHE.

12. Select the Custom check box for Server Authentication.

13. Modify the settings, as required.

14. Click Finished.

After performing this task, you can see the custom Server SSL profile in
the list of Server SSL profiles on the system.

You must also assign the profile to a virtual server.

**Assigning SSL profiles to a virtual server**

The final task in the process of implementing SSL profiles is to assign
the SSL profile to a virtual server. If the relevant virtual server does
not yet exist, you can assign the SSL profile (or profiles) to the
virtual server when you create it.

1. On the Main tab, click Local Traffic > Virtual Servers. The Virtual
   Server List screen opens.

2. Click the name of a virtual server.

3. From the Configuration list, select Advanced.

4. For the SSL Profile (Client) setting, from the Available list, select
   the name of the Client SSL profile you previously created, and using
   the Move button, move the name to the Selected list.

5. For the SSL Profile (Server) setting, from the Available list, select
   the name of the Server SSL profile you previously created, and using
   the Move button, move the name to the Selected list.

6. Click Update to save the changes.

After you perform this task, you must assign the profile to a virtual
server.

|

Objective - 1.04 - Given an iRule functionality, determine the profiles and configuration options necessary to implement the iRule
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.04 – Explain how to create an HTTP configuration to handle an HTTP server error**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/7.html

**Introduction to HTTP profiles**

You can configure an HTTP profile to ensure that HTTP traffic management
suits your specific needs. You can configure the profile settings either
when you create a profile or after you create the profile by modifying
the profile’s settings. For all profile settings, you can specify values
where none exist, or modify any default values to suit your needs. The
BIG-IP system also includes default profiles that you can use as is, if
you do not want to create a custom profile.

**Fallback host**

Another feature that you can configure within an HTTP profile is HTTP
redirection. HTTP redirection allows you to redirect HTTP traffic to
another protocol identifier, host name, port number, or URI path.

Redirection to a fallback host occurs if all members of the targeted
pool are unavailable, or if a selected pool member is unavailable. (The
term unavailable refers to a member being disabled, marked as down, or
having exceeded its connection limit.) When one or more pool members are
unavailable, Local Traffic Manager can redirect the HTTP request to the
fallback host, with the HTTP reply Status Code 302 Found.

Although HTTP redirection often occurs when the system generates an
LB\_FAILED iRule event, redirection can also occur without the
occurrence of this event, such as when:

The selected node sends an RST after a TCP 3WHS has completed, but
before the node has sent at least a full response header.

Local Traffic Manager finds the selected node to be unreachable while
receiving the body portion of a request or a pipelined request.

When configuring Local Traffic Manager to redirect HTTP traffic to a
fallback host, you can specify an IP address or a fully-qualified domain
name (FQDN). The value that you specify becomes the value of the
Location header that the server sends in the response. For example, you
can specify a redirection as http://redirector.siterequest.com.

**Fallback error codes**

In addition to redirecting traffic when a target server becomes
unavailable, you can also specify the HTTP error codes from server
responses that should trigger a redirection to the fallback host.
Typical error codes to specify are 500, 501, and 502.

https://devcentral.f5.com/wiki/iRules.HTTP_RESPONSE.ashx

**How to handle an HTTP server error**

Configuring a virtual server on your BIG-IP platform to load balance the
HTTP based traffic for your webservers can be a very simple
configuration. But you realize that periodically a server returns an
error and the clients are receiving a 404 error, and they are leaving
your site for a competitor’s site. You want to take an action on those
errors to send your customers to a “Sorry Page”.

If this were an issue of all of your servers be off line you could
simply apply a custom HTTP profile to the virtual server and set the
Fallback Host field with the URL to your Sorry Page. However, this is
happening intermittently on random server within the pool.

You could apply an iRule to your virtual server to send your customer to
your Sorry Page when it sees the 404 error.

To do this, follow these steps:

1. Setup your Sorry Server to run the Sorry Page.

2. Write the iRule to meet your needs. The following is an example:
::
   
   when HTTP_RESPONSE {
   if { [HTTP::status] contains "404"} {
   HTTP::redirect "http://www.mysorryserver.com/appsorrypage.html"
   }
   }

3. Apply an HTTP profile (the default http profile will work) to the
   virtual server so that the virtual server will process the HTTP
   traffic allowing the iRule to work correctly.

4. Apply the new iRule to your virtual server.

You could do further rule work to track info about the server when the
errors happen but it is not necessary to solve the problem.

----

|

**1.04 - (Supplemental Example) Given an iRule functionality, determine the profiles and configuration options necessary to implement the iRule**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/18.html

**iRules and Profiles**

An iRule is a powerful and flexible feature within BIG-IP Local Traffic
Manager that you can use to manage your network traffic.

iRules are event-driven, which means that Local Traffic Manager triggers
an iRule based on an event that you specify in the iRule. An event
declaration is the specification of an event within an iRule that causes
Local Traffic Manager to trigger that iRule whenever that event occurs.
Examples of event declarations that can trigger an iRule are
HTTP\_REQUEST, which triggers an iRule whenever the system receives an
HTTP request, and CLIENT\_ACCCEPTED, which triggers an iRule when a
client has established a connection.

The virtual server that the iRule is assigned to also has profiles
configured. Profiles tell the virtual server to process traffic
according to the values specified in the profile. Using profiles not
only enhances your control over managing network traffic and makes
traffic-management tasks easier and more efficient, but they give the
virtual server the visibility into the traffic to know that an iRule
event is happening and an action should be taken. For example, without
the http profile assigned to the virtual server, the http request is not
visible to the LTM and an iRule using the HTTP\_REQUEST even to trigger
could not run.

|


Objective - 1.05 - Given application requirements, determine the appropriate profile and persistence settings
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.05 - Explain how to create an HTTP configuration for mobile clients**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/11.html

**TCP Optimization**

The BIG-IP system includes several pre-configured TCP profiles that you
can use as is. In addition to the default TCP profile, the system
includes TCP profiles that are pre-configured to optimize LAN and WAN
traffic, as well as traffic for mobile users. You can use the
pre-configured profiles as is, or you can create a custom profile based
on a pre-configured profile and then adjust the values of the settings
in the profiles to best suit your particular network environment.

**About tcp-mobile-optimized profile settings**

The tcp-mobile-optimized profile is a pre-configured profile type, for
which the default values are set to give better performance to service
providers' 3G and 4G customers. Specific options in the pre-configured
profile are set to optimize traffic for most mobile users, and you can
tune these settings to fit your network. For files that are smaller than
1 MB, this profile is generally better than the mptcp-mobile-optimized
profile. For a more conservative profile, you can start with the
tcp-mobile-optimized profile, and adjust from there.

Note: Although the pre-configured settings produced the best results in
the test lab, network conditions are extremely variable. For the best
results, start with the default settings and then experiment to find out
what works best in your network.

-  This list provides guidance for relevant settings

-  Set the Proxy Buffer Low to the Proxy Buffer High value minus 64 KB.
   If the Proxy Buffer High is set to less than 64K, set this value at
   32K.

-  The size of the Send Buffer ranges from 64K to 350K, depending on
   network characteristics. If you enable the Rate Pace setting, the
   send buffer can handle over 128K, because rate pacing eliminates some
   of the burstiness that would otherwise exist. On a network with
   higher packet loss, smaller buffer sizes perform better than larger.
   The number of loss recoveries indicates whether this setting should
   be tuned higher or lower. Higher loss recoveries reduce the goodput.

-  Setting the Keep Alive Interval depends on your fast dormancy goals.
   The default setting of 1800 seconds allows the phone to enter low
   power mode while keeping the flow alive on intermediary devices. To
   prevent the device from entering an idle state, lower this value to
   under 30 seconds.

-  The Congestion Control setting includes delay-based and hybrid
   algorithms, which might better address TCP performance issues better
   than fully loss-based congestion control algorithms in mobile
   environments. The Illinois algorithm is more aggressive, and can
   perform better in some situations, particularly when object sizes are
   small. When objects are greater than 1 MB, goodput might decrease
   with Illinois. In a high loss network, Illinois produces lower
   goodput and higher retransmissions. The Woodside algorithm relies on
   timestamps to determine transmission. If timestamps are not available
   in your network, avoid using Woodside.

-  For 4G LTE networks, specify the Packet Loss Ignore Rate as 0. For 3G
   networks, specify 2500. When the Packet Loss Ignore Rate is specified
   as more than 0, the number of retransmitted bytes and receives SACKs
   might increase dramatically.

-  For the Packet Loss Ignore Burst setting, specify within the range of
   6-12, if the Packet Loss Ignore Rate is set to a value greater than
   0. A higher Packet Loss Ignore Burst value increases the chance of
   unnecessary retransmissions.

-  For the Initial Congestion Window Size setting, round trips can be
   reduced when you increase the initial congestion window from 0 to 10
   or 16.

-  Enabling the Rate Pace setting can result in improved goodput. It
   reduces loss recovery across all congestion algorithms, except
   Illinois. The aggressive nature of Illinois results in multiple loss
   recoveries, even with rate pacing enabled.

A tcp-mobile-optimized profile is similar to a TCP profile, except that
the default values of certain settings vary, in order to optimize the
system for mobile traffic.

You can use the tcp-mobile-optimized profile as is, or you can create
another custom profile, specifying the tcp-mobile-optimized profile as
the parent profile.

**About mptcp-mobile-optimized profile settings**

The mptcp-mobile-optimized profile is a pre-configured profile type for
use in reverse proxy and enterprise environments for mobile applications
that are front-ended by a BIG-IP system. This profile provides a more
aggressive starting point than the tcp-mobile-optimized profile. It uses
newer congestion control algorithms and a newer TCP stack, and is
generally better for files that are larger than 1 MB. Specific options
in the pre-configured profile are set to optimize traffic for most
mobile users in this environment, and you can tune these settings to
accommodate your network.

Note: Although the pre-configured settings produced the best results in
the test lab, network conditions are extremely variable. For the best
results, start with the default settings and then experiment to find out
what works best in your network.

The enabled Multipath TCP (MPTCP) option provides more bandwidth and
higher network utilization. It allows multiple client-side flows to
connect to a single server-side flow. MPTCP automatically and quickly
adjusts to congestion in the network, moving traffic away from congested
paths and toward uncongested paths.

The Congestion Control setting includes delay-based and hybrid
algorithms, which may better address TCP performance issues better than
fully loss-based congestion control algorithms in mobile environments.
Refer to the online help descriptions for assistance in selecting the
setting that corresponds to your network conditions.

The enabled Rate Pace option mitigates bursty behavior in mobile
networks and other configurations. It can be useful on high latency or
high BDP (bandwidth-delay product) links, where packet drop is likely to
be a result of buffer overflow rather than congestion.

An mptcp-mobile-optimized profile is similar to a TCP profile, except
that the default values of certain settings vary, in order to optimize
the system for mobile traffic.

You can use the mptcp-mobile-optimized profile as is, or you can create
another custom profile, specifying the mptcp-mobile-optimized profile as
the parent profile.

**HTTP Traffic to optimized pool resources**

Apart from optimizing traffic via protocol profile settings, you could
also use an iRule to look at the user agent string in HTTP headers of
the HTTP\_REQUEST to determine the browser type to be mobile based and
thus send their connection to a Pool resource that may be built or tuned
for mobile based browsers.

----

|

**1.05 - Explain how to create an HTTP configuration to optimize WAN connectivity**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/11.html

**Optimize WAN Connectivity**

The tcp-wan-optimized profile is a pre-configured profile type. In cases
where the BIG-IP system is load balancing traffic over a WAN link, you
can enhance the performance of your wide-area TCP traffic by using the
tcp-wan-optimized profile.

If the traffic profile is strictly WAN-based, and a standard virtual
server with a TCP profile is required, you can configure your virtual
server to use a tcp-wan-optimized profile to enhance WAN-based traffic.
For example, in many cases, the client connects to the BIG-IP virtual
server over a WAN link, which is generally slower than the connection
between the BIG-IP system and the pool member servers. By configuring
your virtual server to use the tcp-wan-optimized profile, the BIG-IP
system can accept the data more quickly, allowing resources on the pool
member servers to remain available. Also, use of this profile can
increase the amount of data that the BIG-IP system buffers while waiting
for a remote client to accept that data. Finally, you can increase
network throughput by reducing the number of short TCP segments that the
BIG-IP system sends on the network.

A tcp-wan-optimized profile is similar to a TCP profile, except that the
default values of certain settings vary, in order to optimize the system
for WAN-based traffic.

You can use the tcp-wan-optimized profile as is, or you can create
another custom profile, specifying the tcp-wan-optimized profile as the
parent profile.

----

|

**1.05 - Determine when connection mirroring is required**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13478

**Connection Mirroring**

The connection and persistence mirroring feature allows you to configure
a BIG-IP system to duplicate connection and persistence information to
the standby unit of a redundant pair. This setting provides higher
reliability but might affect system performance.

Redundant BIG-IP systems are not stateful by default. The BIG-IP device
service clustering (DSC) architecture allows you to create a redundant
system configuration for multiple BIG-IP devices on a network. System
redundancy includes the ability to mirror connection and persistence
information to a peer device to prevent interruption in service during
failover. The Traffic Management Microkernel (TMM) manages the state
mirroring mechanism, and connection and persistence data is synchronized
to the standby unit with every packet or flow state update. The standby
unit decapsulates the packets and adds them to the connection table.

BIG-IP 11.3.0 and earlier versions maintain only a single global
connection and persistence mirroring channel. The active BIG-IP system
in a high availability (HA) device group can only mirror to one specific
standby BIG-IP system using the global mirror channel. The mirroring
channel is created on TCP port 1028.

Beginning with version 11.4.0, the BIG-IP system maintains a separate
mirroring channel for each traffic group. The active BIG-IP system in an
HA device group dynamically establishes a mirroring connection to the
standby with a status of Next Active for a given traffic group. The port
range for each connection channel begins at TCP 1029 and increments by
one for each new traffic group and channel created. For more
information, refer to K14894: The BIG-IP system establishes a separate
mirroring channel for each traffic group.

In BIG-IP 12.0.0 and later, you can configure the system to mirror
Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) connections that are terminated by the BIG-IP
system to peer device group members. For more information, refer to
K17391: Configuring SSL connection mirroring.

You can use the Configuration utility or Traffic Management Shell (tmsh)
to configure mirroring addresses, configure connection mirroring for
virtual servers and Secure Network Address Translations (SNATs), and
configure persistence mirroring. You can also view mirroring data on the
active and standby BIG-IP systems using the tmsh utility.

**When to Configure**

Not all applications have to have their connection state know by the
standby unit. Mainly applications that have long-term connections will
need to have their connections mirrored.

For example, where long-term connections, such as FTP and Telnet, are
good candidates for mirroring, mirroring short-term connections, such as
HTTP and UDP, is not recommended as this causes a decrease in system
performance. In addition, mirroring HTTP and UDP connections is
typically not necessary, as those protocols allow for failure of
individual requests without loss of the entire session.

----

|

**1.05 - (Supplemental Example) Describe the persistence across pools and services (e.g., Match Across Services, Match Across vs Match Across Pools)**

`Link to Online Topic Content <https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/solutions/public/5000/800/sol5837.html?sr=42216014>`__

**Match Across to Solve Deeper Persistence Issues**

The Match Across options specify that, regardless of the type of
persistence you are implementing, you can specify the criteria that the
BIG-IP system uses to send all requests from a client to the same pool
member. The criteria are based on the virtual servers that are hosting
the client connection.

**Match Across Services**

The Match Across Services option is used in the following two
configurations:

-  Configurations that have multiple virtual servers with the same IP
   address but have different services specified.

-  Configurations that have pool members sharing the same address but
   have different services specified.

Important: The Match Across Services option uses only the node
IP address to find a persistence match in pools other than the one for
which the persistence record was written. This deviation from the normal
persistence matching behavior is required to accommodate the intended
use cases for the feature to match even when the service port does not.
Because of this lack of granularity, a pool containing multiple members
with the same node address may result in inconsistent load balancing
behavior. For this reason, F5 recommends that pools associated with
virtual servers that are configured to use the Match Across Services
option should not contain multiple members using the same node address.

A typical use of the Match Across Services feature is for combined
HTTP/HTTPS support for the same site. Commerce sites are typically
configured to allow customers to view and select merchandise using HTTP,
but then the site switches to HTTPS when the customer begins the
checkout process. The Match Across Services option is useful in this
configuration as it allows the session information to be shared between
the virtual servers and ensures that the client is directed to the same
pool member.

The example, the configuration below shows that clients are load
balanced to pool member **172.16.1.2:http**, and an entry is created in
the persistence table when they first connect to virtual server
**192.168.0.10:http**.

If the same clients connect to virtual server **192.168.0.10:https**,
the BIG-IP system uses the persistence session information that was
established with the initial connection, and directs the request to pool
member **172.16.1.2:https**.

If the same clients connect to virtual server **192.168.0.20:http**, the
request is load balanced according to the method specified by the pool,
and a new persistence session is entered in the persistence table for
tracking.

Note: This behavior occurs because the third virtual server does not
share the same address as the other two that are configured.

If the client connects to a different virtual server that does not
utilize persistence, that connection will be load balanced according to
the load balancing option specified by the pool for that virtual server.

The following configuration shows how a request is directed with the
Match Across Services option enabled:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 40

   * - Name
     - Value
   * - HTTP Virtual Server
     - **192.168.0.10:http**
   * - Persistence Type
     - **Source Address Affinity**
   * - Match Across Services
     - **enabled**
   * - HTTP Pool Name
     - **http\_pool**
   * - HTTP Pool Members
     - **172.16.1.1:http, 172.16.1.2:http, 172.16.1.3:http**
   * - HTTP Virtual Server
     - **192.168.0.10:https**
   * - Persistence Type
     - **Source Address Affinity**
   * - Match Across Services
     - **enabled**
   * - HTTP Pool Name
     - **https\_pool**
   * - HTTP Pool Members
     - **172.16.1.1:https, 172.16.1.2:https, 172.16.1.3:https**
   * - HTTP Virtual Server
     - **192.168.0.20:http**
   * - Persistence Type
     - **Source Address Affinity**
   * - Match Across Services
     - **enabled**
   * - HTTP Pool Name
     - **http2\_pool**
   * - HTTP Pool Members
     - **172.16.1.1:8443, 172.16.1.2:8443, 172.16.1.3:8443**

**Match Across Virtual Servers**

Match Across Virtual Servers is similar to Match Across Services, but it
does not require the virtual servers to share the same IP address. This
configuration allows clients to access different virtual servers,
regardless of their IP address, and still access the same pool member.

The example configuration below shows that clients are load balanced to
pool member **172.16.1.2:http**, and an entry is created in the
persistence table when they first connect to virtual server
**192.168.0.10:http**.

If the same clients connect to virtual server **192.168.0.10:https**,
the BIG-IP system uses the persistence session information that was
established with the initial connection to virtual server
**192.168.0.10:http**, and directs the request to pool member
**172.16.1.2:https**.

If the same clients connect to virtual server **192.168.0.20:http**, the
BIG-IP uses the persistence session information that was established
with the initial connection to virtual server **192.168.0.10:http** and
directs the request to pool member **172.16.1.2:8443**.

Note: This behavior occurs because the pool members used by virtual
server **192.168.0.20:http** have the same node IP as those specified in
the http\_pool used by virtual server **192.168.0.10:http**.

If the client connects to a different virtual server that does not use
persistence, that connection will be load balanced according to the load
balancing option specified by the pool for that virtual server.

The following configuration shows how a request is directed when the
Match Across Virtual Servers option is enabled:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 40

   * - Name
     - Value
   * - HTTP Virtual Server
     - **192.168.0.10:http**
   * - Persistence Type
     - **Source Address Affinity**
   * - Match Across Virtuals
     - **enabled**
   * - HTTP Pool Name
     - **http\_pool**
   * - HTTP Pool Members
     - **172.16.1.1:http, 172.16.1.2:http, 172.16.1.3:http**
   * - HTTP Virtual Server
     - **192.168.0.10:https**
   * - Persistence Type
     - **Source Address Affinity**
   * - Match Across Virtuals
     - **enabled**
   * - HTTP Pool Name
     - **https\_pool**
   * - HTTP Pool Members
     - **172.16.1.1:https, 172.16.1.2:https, 172.16.1.3:https**
   * - HTTP Virtual Server
     - **192.168.0.20:http**
   * - Persistence Type
     - **Source Address Affinity**
   * - Match Across Virtuals
     - **enabled**
   * - HTTP Pool Name
     - **http2\_pool**
   * - HTTP Pool Members
     - **172.16.1.1:8443, 172.16.1.2:8443, 172.16.1.3:8443**

**Match Across Pools**

The Match Across Pools option allows the BIG-IP system to use any pool
that contains a persistence record for that specific client. You must
proceed cautiously when using this option, as it can direct a client's
request to a pool that is not specified by the virtual server.

----

|

**1.05 - (Supplemental Example) Describe the cookie persistence options**

`Link to Online Topic Content <https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-2-0/ltm_persist_profiles.html?sr=42324734#1184882>`__

**Cookie Persistence**

You can set up Local Traffic Manager to use HTTP cookie persistence.
Cookie persistence uses an HTTP cookie stored on a client’s computer to
allow the client to reconnect to the same pool member previously visited
at a web site.

There are four methods of cookie persistence available:

-  HTTP Cookie Insert method

-  HTTP Cookie Rewrite method

-  HTTP Cookie Passive method

-  Cookie Hash method

The method you choose to use affects how Local Traffic Manager returns
the cookie when returning the cookie to the client.

**HTTP Cookie Insert method**

If you specify HTTP Cookie Insert method within the profile, the
information about the server to which the client connects is inserted in
the header of the HTTP response from the server as a cookie. The cookie
is named BIGipServer<pool\_name>, and it includes the address and port
of the server handling the connection. The expiration date for the
cookie is set based on the timeout configured on the BIG-IP system. HTTP
Cookie Insert is the default value for the Cookie Method setting.

Tip: You can assign this type of profile to a Performance (HTTP) type of
virtual server.

**HTTP Cookie Rewrite method**

If you specify HTTP Cookie Rewrite method, Local Traffic Manager
intercepts a Set-Cookie header, named BIGipCookie, sent from the server
to the client, and overwrites the name and value of the cookie. The new
cookie is named BIGipServer<pool\_name> and it includes the address and
port of the server handling the connection.

*Important*: We recommend that you use this method instead of the HTTP
Cookie Passive method whenever possible.

The HTTP Cookie Rewrite method requires you to set up the cookie created
by the server. For the HTTP Cookie Rewrite method to succeed, there
needs to be a blank cookie coming from the web server for Local Traffic
Manager to rewrite. With Apache variants, the cookie can be added to
every web page header by adding the following entry to the httpd.conf
file:
::

   Header add Set-Cookie BIGipCookie=0000000000000000000000000...

(The cookie must contain a total of 120 zeros.)

Note: For backward compatibility, the blank cookie can contain only 75
zeros. However, cookies of this size do not allow you to use iRules and
persistence together.

**HTTP Cookie Passive method**

If you specify the HTTP Cookie Passive method, Local Traffic Manager
does not insert or search for blank Set-Cookie headers in the response
from the server. This method does not try to set up the cookie. With
this method, the server provides the cookie, formatted with the correct
server information and timeout.

*Important*: We recommend that you use the HTTP Cookie Rewrite method
instead of the HTTP Cookie Passive method whenever possible.

For the HTTP Cookie Passive method to succeed, there needs to be a
cookie coming from the web server with the appropriate server
information in the cookie. Using the Configuration utility, you generate
a template for the cookie string, with encoding automatically added, and
then edit the template to create the actual cookie.

For example, the following string is a generated cookie template with
the encoding automatically added, where [pool name] is the name of the
pool that contains the server, 336260299 is the encoded server address,
and 20480 is the encoded port:
::

   Set-Cookie:BIGipServer[poolname]=336268299.20480.0000; expires=Sat, 01-Jan-2002 00:00:00 GMT; path=/

**Cookie Hash method**

If you specify the Cookie Hash method, the hash method consistently maps
a cookie value to a specific node. When the client returns to the site,
Local Traffic Manager uses the cookie information to return the client
to a given node. With this method, the web server must generate the
cookie; Local Traffic Manager does not create the cookie automatically
as it does when you use the HTTP Cookie Insert method.

Cookie profile settings

To implement cookie persistence, you can either use the default cookie
profile, or create a custom profile.

*Settings of a Cookie persistence profile*

+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| **Setting**                    | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | **Default Value**                                     |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                           | Specifies a unique name for the profile. This setting is required.                                                                                                                                                                         | No default value                                      |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Persistence Type               | Specifies the type of persistence. This setting is required.                                                                                                                                                                               | Cookie                                                |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Cookie Method                  | Specifies the type of cookie processing that the BIG-IP system is to use. For more information, see *HTTP Cookie Insert method*, following.                                                                                                | HTTP Cookie Insert                                    |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Cookie Name                    | Specifies the name of the cookie that the BIG-IP system should look for or insert.                                                                                                                                                         | This value is autogenerated based on the pool name.   |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Expiration                     | Sets the expiration time of the cookie. Applies to the HTTP Cookie Insert and HTTP Cookie Rewrite methods only. When using the default (checked), the system uses the expiration time specified in the session cookie.                     | Enabled (Checked)                                     |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Hash Offset                    | With respect to Cookie persistence, this setting applies to the **Cookie Hash** method only.                                                                                                                                               | 0                                                     |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Hash Length                    | With respect to Cookie persistence, this setting applies to the **Cookie Hash** method only.                                                                                                                                               | 0                                                     |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Timeout                        | This setting applies to the **Cookie Hash** method only. The setting specifies the duration, in seconds, of a persistence entry.                                                                                                           | 180                                                   |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Mirror Persistence             | Specifies, when enabled (checked), that if the active unit goes into the standby mode, the system mirrors any persistence records to its peer. With respect to Cookie profiles, this setting applies to the **Cookie Hash** method only.   | Disabled (Cleared)                                    |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Match Across Services          | Specifies that all persistent connections from a client IP address that go to the same virtual IP address also go to the same node. With respect to Cookie profiles, this setting applies to the **Cookie Hash** method only.              | Disabled (Cleared)                                    |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Match Across Virtual Servers   | Specifies that all persistent connections from the same client IP address go to the same node. With respect to Cookie profiles, this setting applies to the **Cookie Hash** method only.                                                   | Disabled (Cleared)                                    |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Match Across Pools             | Specifies that the BIG-IP system can use any pool that contains this persistence entry. With respect to Cookie profiles, this setting applies to the **Cookie Hash** method only.                                                          | Disabled (Cleared)                                    |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Override Connection Limit      | Specifies, when checked (enabled), that the system allows you to specify that pool member connection limits are overridden for persisted clients. Per-virtual connection limits remain hard limits and are not overridden.                 | Disabled (Cleared)                                    |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

|

Objective - 1.06 - Explain the steps necessary to configure AVR
---------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.06 - Explain the steps necessary to configure the AVR**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_analytics/manuals/product/avr-implementations-11-5-0/1.html

**Application Visibility and Reporting**

Analytics (also called Application Visibility and Reporting (AVR)) is a
module on the BIG-IP system that you can use to analyze the performance
of web applications. It provides detailed metrics such as transactions
per second, server and client latency, request and response throughput,
and sessions. You can view metrics for applications, virtual servers,
pool members, URLs, specific countries, and additional detailed
statistics about application traffic running through the BIG-IP system.

Transaction counters for response codes, user agents, HTTP methods,
countries, and IP addresses provide statistical analysis of the traffic
that is going through the system. You can capture traffic for
examination and have the system send alerts so you can troubleshoot
problems and immediately react to sudden changes.

The Analytics module also provides remote logging capabilities so that
your company can consolidate statistics gathered from multiple BIG-IP
appliances onto syslog servers or SIEM devices, such as Splunk.

**AVR Profile**

An Analytics profile is a set of definitions that determines the
circumstances under which the system gathers, logs, notifies, and
graphically displays information regarding traffic to an application.
The Analytics module requires that you select an Analytics profile for
each application you want to monitor. You associate the Analytics
profile with one or more virtual servers used by the application, or
with an iApps application service. Each virtual server can have only one
Analytics profile associated with it.

In the Analytics profile, you customize:

-  What statistics to collect

-  Where to collect data (locally, remotely, or both)

-  Whether to capture the traffic itself

-  Whether to send notifications

The BIG-IP system includes a default Analytics profile called analytics.
It is a minimal profile that internally logs application statistics for
server latency, throughput, response codes, and methods. You can modify
the default profile, or create custom Analytics profiles for each
application if you want to track different data for each one.

Charts shown on the Statistics > Analytics > HTTP screens display the
application data saved for all Analytics profiles associated with iApps
application services or virtual servers on the system. You can filter
the information, for example, by application or URL. You can also drill
down into the specifics on the charts, and use the options to further
refine the information in the charts.

**Setting Up AVR**

This implementation describes how to set up the BIG-IP system to collect
application performance statistics. The system can collect application
statistics locally, remotely, or both. You use these statistics for
troubleshooting and improving application performance.

You can collect application statistics for one or more virtual servers
or for an iApps application service. If virtual servers are already
configured, you can specify them when setting up statistics collection.
If you want to collect statistics for an iApps application service, you
should first set up statistics collection, creating an Analytics
profile, and then create the application service.

The system can send alerts regarding the statistics when thresholds are
exceeded, and when they cross back into the normal range. You can
customize the threshold values for transactions per second, latency,
page load time, and throughput.

----

|

**1.06 - Explain how to create an AVR profile and options**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_analytics/manuals/product/avr-implementations-11-5-0/1.html

**AVR profile and options**

You need to provision the AVR module before you can set up local
application statistics collection.

Note: Newer browsers (Internet Explorer 9 or later, Firefox 3.6 or
later, or Chrome 14 or later) support viewing Analytics charts with no
additional plug-in. If using older browsers (Internet Explorer 8 or
earlier, Firefox 3.5 or earlier, or Chrome 13 or earlier), Adobe Flash
Player (version 8 or later) must be installed on the computer where you
plan to view Analytics charts.

Setting up local application statistics collection

You can configure the BIG-IP system to collect specific application
statistics locally.

1. On the Main tab, click Local Traffic > Profiles > Analytics. The Analytics screen opens.

Tip: If Analytics is not listed, this indicates that Application
Visibility and Reporting (AVR) is not provisioned, or you do not
have rights to create profiles.

2. Click Create. The New Analytics Profile screen opens.

3. In the Profile Name field, type a unique name for the Analytics profile.

4. Select the Custom check box.

5. For the Statistics Logging Type setting, verify that Internal is selected. If it is not, select the check box on the right first to activate the setting, then select Internal.

Selecting Internal causes the system to store statistics locally,
and you can view the charts on the system by clicking Statistics >
Analytics > HTTP.

6. You can use the default values for the rest of the General Configuration settings.

7. In the Included Objects area, specify the virtual servers for which to capture application statistics:

   -  For the Virtual Servers setting, click Add.

   -  From the Select Virtual Server list that displays, select the virtual servers to include and then click Done.

Note: Only virtual servers previously configured with an HTTP
profile display in the list. Also, you can assign only one Analytics
profile to a virtual server; therefore, the list displays only
virtual servers that have not been assigned an Analytics profile.

Special considerations apply if using Analytics on a BIG-IP system
with both Application Security Manager and Access Policy Manager,
where security settings (in Portal Access Webtop or an iRule)
redirect traffic from one virtual server to another. In this case,
you need to attach the Analytics profile to the second virtual
server to ensure that the charts show accurate statistics.

8. In the Statistics Gathering Configuration area, select the Custom check box.

9. In the Statistics Gathering Configuration, for Collected Metrics, select the statistics you want the system to collect:

+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Option**               | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
+==========================+===================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+
| Max TPS and Throughput   | Collects statistics showing the maximum number of transactions occurring per second and the amount of traffic moving through the system (maximum request and response throughput is collected and recorded separately). In the Details table of the Analytics: HTTP Transactions screen, if you drill down into a specific entity, the system displays the maximum TPS. Drilling down in the Request Throughput details displays the maximum request throughput for each entity; and drilling down in the Response Throughput details displays the maximum response throughput for each entity.   |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Page Load Time           | Tracks how long it takes an application user to get a complete response from the application, including network latency and completed page processing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                          | Note: End user response times and latencies can vary significantly based on geography and connection types.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| User Sessions            | Stores the number of unique user sessions. For Timeout, select the number of minutes of user inactivity to allow before the system considers the session to be over.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                          | For Cookie Secure Attribute, specify whether to secure session cookies. Options are Always, the secure attribute is always added to the session cookie; Never, the secure attribute is never added to the session cookie; or Only SSL, the secure attribute is added to the session cookie only when the virtual server has a client SSL profile (the default value).                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

10. In the Statistics Gathering Configuration area, for Collected Entities, select the entities for which you want the system to collect statistics:

+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Option**            | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                  |
+=======================+==================================================================================================================================================================================================+
| URLs                  | Collects the requested URLs.                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Countries             | Saves the name of the country where the request came from based on the client IP address.                                                                                                        |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Client IP Addresses   | Saves the IP address where the request originated. The address saved also depends on whether the request has an XFF (X-forwarded-for) header and whether the HTTP profile accepts XFF headers.   |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Client Subnets        | Saves statistics for predefined client subnets. Client subnets can be added in the Subnets area of the default Analytics profile.                                                                |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Response Codes        | Saves HTTP response codes that the server returned to requesters.                                                                                                                                |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| User Agents           | Saves information about browsers used when making the request.                                                                                                                                   |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Methods               | Saves HTTP methods in requests.                                                                                                                                                                  |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

11. Click Finished.

|


Objective - 1.07 - Given a set of reporting requirements, determine the AVR metrics and entities to collect
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.07 - (Supplemental Example) Given a set of reporting requirements, determine the AVR metrics and entities to collect**

**AVR Metrics and Entities to Collect**

As you are working with AVR in your lab and looking at results of the
metrics that you gather, you should be paying attention to what AVR
allows you to collect like Server Latency, Page Load Time, Throughput
and User Sessions. You should also know what each of these mean (defined
in the last section). You should also be aware of what you can gather
that information for, such as URLs, Countries, Client IP Addresses,
Response Codes, User Agents and Methods. You should also know what each
of those mean (defined in the last section).

----

|

**1.07 - Explain the sizing implications of AVR on the LTM device**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_analytics/releasenotes/product/relnote-avr-11-5-0.html

**AVR Sizing**

Provisioning AVR can be as impactful as provisioning any other licensed
module. AVR requires CPU and Memory resources to function. As you
increase the use of AVR within the BIG-IP device it can continue to
further impact system resources. If you intend to use AVR on your BIG-IP
environment you should consider the resource impact when you are doing
platform sizing, as if it were any other heavy impact licensable
software for the system.

----

|

**1.07 - Explain the logging and notifications options of AVR**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_analytics/manuals/product/avr-implementations-11-5-0/2.html

**AVR**

You can examine the statistics in the Analytics charts when Application
Visibility and Reporting (AVR) is provisioned. Analytics charts display
statistical information about traffic on your system, including the
following details:

-  Overview

-  Transactions

-  Latency

-  Throughput

-  Sessions

The system updates the Analytics statistics every five minutes (you can
refresh the charts periodically to see the updates). The Analytics
Overview provides a summary of the most frequent recent types of
application traffic, such as the top virtual servers, top URLS, top pool
members, and so on. You can customize the Analytics Overview so that it
shows the specific type of data you are interested in. You can also
export the reports to a PDF or CSV file, or send the reports to one or
more email addresses.

Note: The displayed Analytics statistics are rounded up to two
digits, and might be slightly inaccurate.

Before you can look at the application statistics, you need to have
created an Analytics profile so that the system is capturing the
application statistics internally on the BIG-IP system. You must
associate the Analytics profile with one or more virtual servers (in the
Analytics profile or in the virtual server). If you created an iApp
application service, you can use the provided template to associate the
virtual server.

----

|

**1.07 - Explain the uses of the collected metrics and entities**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_analytics/manuals/product/avr-implementations-11-5-0/1.html

**Uses of AVR**

You can review charts that show statistical information about traffic to
your web applications. The charts provide visibility into application
behavior, user experience, transactions, and data center resource usage.

Collected Metrics

+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Option**               | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
+==========================+===================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+
| Max TPS and Throughput   | Collects statistics showing the maximum number of transactions occurring per second and the amount of traffic moving through the system (maximum request and response throughput is collected and recorded separately). In the Details table of the Analytics: HTTP Transactions screen, if you drill down into a specific entity, the system displays the maximum TPS. Drilling down in the Request Throughput details displays the maximum request throughput for each entity; and drilling down in the Response Throughput details displays the maximum response throughput for each entity.   |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Page Load Time           | Tracks how long it takes an application user to get a complete response from the application, including network latency and completed page processing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                          | Note: End user response times and latencies can vary significantly based on geography and connection types.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| User Sessions            | Stores the number of unique user sessions. For Timeout, select the number of minutes of user inactivity to allow before the system considers the session to be over.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                          | For Cookie Secure Attribute, specify whether to secure session cookies. Options are Always, the secure attribute is always added to the session cookie; Never, the secure attribute is never added to the session cookie; or Only SSL, the secure attribute is added to the session cookie only when the virtual server has a client SSL profile (the default value).                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| URLs                     | Collects the requested URLs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Countries                | Saves the name of the country where the request came from based on the client IP address.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Client IP Addresses      | Saves the IP address where the request originated. The address saved also depends on whether the request has an XFF (X-forwarded-for) header and whether the HTTP profile accepts XFF headers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Client Subnets           | Saves statistics for predefined client subnets. Client subnets can be added in the Subnets area of the default Analytics profile.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Response Codes           | Saves HTTP response codes that the server returned to requesters.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| User Agents              | Saves information about browsers used when making the request.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Methods                  | Saves HTTP methods in requests.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
+--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

|

Objective - 1.08 - Given a scenario, determine the appropriate monitor type and parameters to use
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.08 - Explain how to create an application specific monitor**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/14.html#conceptid

**Application Specific Monitor**

You can set up the BIG-IP system to monitor the health or performance of
certain nodes or servers that are members of a load balancing pool.
Monitors verify connections on pool members and nodes. A monitor can be
either a health monitor or a performance monitor, designed to check the
status of a pool, pool member, or node on an ongoing basis, at a set
interval. If a pool member or node being checked does not respond within
a specified timeout period, or the status of a pool member or node
indicates that performance is degraded, the BIG-IP system can redirect
the traffic to another pool member or node.

Some monitors are included as part of the BIG-IP system, while other
monitors are user-created. Monitors that the BIG-IP system provides are
called pre-configured monitors. User-created monitors are called custom
monitors.

Before configuring and using monitors, it is helpful to understand some
basic concepts regarding monitor types, monitor settings, and monitor
implementation.

Monitor types

Every monitor, whether pre-configured or custom, is a certain type of
monitor. Each type of monitor checks the status of a particular
protocol, service, or application. For example, one type of monitor is
HTTP. An HTTP type of monitor allows you to monitor the availability of
the HTTP service on a pool, pool member, or node. A WMI type of monitor
allows you to monitor the performance of a pool, pool member, or node
that is running the Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) software.
An ICMP type of monitor simply determines whether the status of a node
is up or down.

|

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-monitors-reference-11-5-0/1.html

**About address check monitors**

An address check monitor provides a simple verification of an address on
a network. This type of monitor sends a request to a virtual server.
When a response is received, the test is successful.

When an address check monitor is associated with a node, it determines
the availability of all services associated with that node's IP address.
If the monitor is unsuccessful in determining that a node is available,
the monitor marks the node and all pool members at that IP address as
Offline.

The following illustration depicts a Local Traffic Manager™ using a TCP
Echo monitor to verify an IP address for a virtual server.

|

.. image:: /_static/301a/p4.png

|

**About application check monitors**

An application check monitor interacts with servers by sending multiple
commands and processing multiple responses.

An FTP monitor, for example, connects to a server, logs in by using a
user ID and password, navigates to a specific directory, and then
downloads a specific file to the /var/tmp directory. If the file is
retrieved, the check is successful.

|

.. image:: /_static/301a/p5.png

|

1. Local Traffic Manager opens a TCP connection to an IP address and port, and logs in to the server.

2. A specified directory is located and a specific file is requested.

3. The server sends the file to Local Traffic Manager.

4. Local Traffic Manager receives the file and closes the TCP connection.

**About content check monitors**

A content check monitor determines whether a service is available and
whether the server is serving the appropriate content. This type of
monitor opens a connection to an IP address and port, and then issues a
command to the server. The response is compared to the monitors receive
rule. When a portion of the server's response matches the receive rule,
the test is successful.

|

.. image:: /_static/301a/p6.png

|

1. Local Traffic Manager opens a TCP connection to an IP address and
   port, and issues a command to the server.

2. The server sends a response.

3. Local Traffic Manager compares the response to the monitors receive
   rule and closes the connection

|

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-monitors-reference-11-5-0/2.html

**Creating a custom HTTP monitor**

Before creating a monitor, you must decide on a monitor type.

A custom HTTP monitor enables you to send a command to a server and
examine that server's response, thus ensuring that it is serving
appropriate content.

Note: An HTTP monitor can monitor Outlook® Web Access (OWA) in
Microsoft® Exchange Server 2007 and Microsoft® SharePoint® 2007 web
sites that require NT LAN Manager (NTLM) authentication. NTLM
authentication requires a send string that complies with HTTP/1.1, a
user name, and a password.

1. On the Main tab, click Local Traffic > Monitors. The Monitor List
   screen opens.

2. Type a name for the monitor in the Name field.

3. From the Type list, select HTTP.

The screen refreshes, and displays the configuration options for the HTTP monitor type.

4. From the Import Settings list, select http.

The new monitor inherits initial configuration values from the existing monitor.

5. In the Configuration area of the screen, select Advanced.

This selection makes it possible for you to modify additional
default settings.

6. Type a number in the Interval field that indicates, in seconds, how
   frequently the system issues the monitor check. The default is 5
   seconds.

7. From the Up Interval list, do one of the following:

   -  Accept the default, Disabled, if you do not want to use the up interval.

   -  Select Enabled, and specify how often you want the system to verify the health of a resource that is up.

8. Type a number in the Time Until Up field that indicates the number of
   seconds to wait after a resource first responds correctly to the
   monitor before setting the resource to up.

The default value is 0 (zero), which disables this option.

9. Type a number in the Timeout field that indicates, in seconds, how
   much time the target has to respond to the monitor check. The default
   is 30 seconds.

If the target responds within the allotted time period, it is
considered up. If the target does not respond within the time
period, it is considered down.

10. Specify whether the system automatically enables the monitored resource, when the monitor check is successful, for Manual Resume.

This setting applies only when the monitored resource has failed to respond to a monitor check.

+----------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Option   | Description                                                                                                     |
+==========+=================================================================================================================+
| Yes      | The system does nothing when the monitor check succeeds, and you must manually enable the monitored resource.   |
+----------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| No       | The system automatically re-enables the monitored resource after the next successful monitor check.             |
+----------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

11. Type a text string in the Send String field that the monitor sends to the target resource. The default string is GET /\\r\\n. This string retrieves a default file from the web site.

*Important*: Send string syntax depends upon the HTTP version.
Please observe the following conventions.

+---------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Version       | Convention                                                                                                                       |
+===============+==================================================================================================================================+
| HTTP 0.9      | "GET /\\n" or "GET /\\r\\n".                                                                                                     |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| HTTP 1.0      | "GET / HTTP/1.0\\r\\n\\r\\n" or "GET /HTTP/1.0\\n\\n"                                                                            |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| HTTP 1.1      | "GET / HTTP/1.1\\r\\nHost: server.com\\r\\n\\r\\n" or "GET /HTTP/1.1\\r\\nHost: server.com\\r\\nConnection: close\\r\\n\\r\\n"   |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Type a fully qualified path name, for example, "GET
/www/example/index.html\\r\\n", if you want to retrieve a specific
web site page.

12. Type a regular expression in the Receive String field that represents the text string that the monitor looks for in the returned resource.

The most common receive expressions contain a text string that is
included in an HTML file on your site. The text string can be
regular text, HTML tags, or image names.

Note: If you do not specify both a send string and a receive string,
the monitor performs a simple service check and connect only.

13. Type a regular expression in the Receive Disable String field that represents the text string that the monitor looks for in the returned resource.

Use a Receive String value together with a Receive Disable String
value to match the value of a response from the origin web server
and create one of three states for a pool member or node: Up
(Enabled), when only Receive String matches the response; Up
(Disabled), when only Receive Disable String matches the response;
or Down, when neither Receive String nor Receive Disable String
matches the response.

Note: If you choose to set the Reverse setting to Yes, the Receive
Disable String option becomes unavailable and the monitor marks the
pool, pool member, or node Down when the test is successful.

14. Type a name in the User Name field.

15. Type a password in the Password field.

16. For the Reverse setting, do one of the following:

    -  Accept the No default option.

    -  Select the Yes option to make the Receive Disable String option unavailable and mark the pool, pool member, or node Down when the test is successful.

17. For the Transparent setting, do one of the following:

    -  Accept the No default option.

    -  Select the Yes option to use a path through the associated pool members or nodes to monitor the aliased destination.

The HTTP monitor is configured to monitor HTTP traffic.

----

|

**1.08 - Given a desired outcome, determine where to apply health monitors**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0.pdf

**Applying Health Monitors**

You must associate a monitor with the server or servers to be monitored.
The server or servers can either be a pool, a pool member, or a node,
depending on the monitor type.

You can associate a monitor with a server in any of these ways:

Monitor-to-pool association

This type of association associates a monitor with an entire load
balancing pool. In this case, the monitor checks all members of the
pool. For example, you can create an instance of the monitor http for
every member of the pool my\_pool, thus ensuring that all members of
that pool are checked.

Monitor-to-pool member association

This type of association associates a monitor with an individual pool
member, that is, an IP address and service. In this case, the monitor
checks only that pool member and not any other members of the pool. For
example, you can create an instance of the monitor http for pool member
10.10.10.10:80 of my\_pool.

Monitor-to-node association

This type of association associates a monitor with a specific node. In
this case, the monitor checks only the node itself, and not any services
running on that node. For example, you can create an instance of the
monitor ICMP for node 10.10.10.10. In this case, the monitor checks the
specific node only, and not any services running on that node.

You can designate a monitor as the default monitor that you want Local
Traffic Manager to associate with one or more nodes. In this case, any
node to which you have not specifically assigned a monitor inherits the
default monitor.

Some monitor types are designed for association with nodes only, and not
pools or pool members. Other monitor types are intended for association
with pools and pool members only, and not nodes.

Node-only monitors specify a destination address in the format of an IP
address with no service port (for example, 10.10.10.2). Conversely,
monitors that you can associate with nodes, pools, and pool members
specify a destination address in the format of an IP address and service
port (for example, 10.10.10.2:80). Therefore, when you use the
Configuration utility to associate a monitor with a pool, pool member,
or node, the utility displays only those pre-configured monitors that
are designed for association with that server.

For example, you cannot associate the monitor ICMP with a pool or its
members, since the ICMP monitor is designed to check the status of a
node itself and not any service running on that node.

Monitor instances

When you associate a monitor with a server, Local Traffic Manager
automatically creates an instance of that monitor for that server. A
monitor association thus creates an instance of a monitor for each
server that you specify. This means that you can have multiple instances
of the same monitor running on your servers.

Because instances of monitors are not partitioned objects, a user can
enable or disable an instance of a monitor without having permission to
manage the associated pool or pool member.

For example, a user with the Manager role, who can access partition AppA
only, can enable or disable monitor instances for a pool that resides in
partition Common. However, that user cannot perform operations on the
pool or pool members that are associated with the monitor. Although this
is correct functionality, the user might not expect this behavior. You
can prevent this unexpected behavior by ensuring that all pools and pool
members associated with monitor instances reside in the same partition.

----

|

**1.08 - Determine under which circumstances an external monitor is required**

https://devcentral.f5.com/articles/ltm-external-monitors-the-basics

**External Monitor**

LTM's external monitors are incredibly flexible, fairly easy to
implement, and especially useful for monitoring applications for which
there is no built-in monitor template. They give you the ability to
effectively monitor the health of just about any application by writing
custom scripts to interact with your servers in the same way users
would.

An "External Monitor" is a script that is "external" to the
configuration file which contains specific logic designed to interact
with your servers to verify the health of load balanced services. LTM
runs a unique instance of the custom-crafted script against each pool
member to which it is applied, passing commandline arguments and
environment variables as specified in the monitor definition calling the
script. The script logic formulates and submits a request (or requests)
to the target pool member, evaluates the response(s), and manages the
pool member's availability based on the results of the response
evaluation.

Do you really need an external monitor?

Never use an external monitor when a built-in one will work as well.
Forking a shell and running even the simplest shell script takes a
significant amount of system resources, so external monitors should be
avoided whenever possible. If possible, have the server administrator
script execution of the required transaction on the server itself (or
locate/author an alternative script on the server) that reliably
reflects its availability. Then, instead of an external monitor, you can
define a built-in monitor that requests that dynamic script from the
server, and let the server run the script locally and report results.
For example, the simple request/response HTTP transaction in the sample
script below would be much better implemented using the built-in basic
HTTP monitor.

|

Objective - 1.09 - Given a set of parameters, predict an outcome of a monitor status on other LTM device objects
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.09 - Determine the effect of a monitor on the virtual server status**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-monitors-reference-11-5-0/1.html

**Effect of Monitoring**

Health monitoring with a BIG-IP allows you to monitor resources at many
different levels. Monitors are assigned to resources in two areas of the
configuration, at the node level and at the pool level. At the node
level, you can assign monitors to all nodes (Default Monitor) or to each
node (Node Specific). At the pool level, you can assign monitors to all
pool members (Default Pool Monitor) or to each member (Member Specific).

If a monitor at the node level marks the node down, then pool member
that uses the node IP address as its member IP address will
automatically be marked down. This function works as a parent-child
relationship between the node and the pool member. These monitors are
typically network level monitors (ping, TCP half open)

When a pool member that is being monitored by a health monitor does not
respond to a probe from the BIG-IP system within a specified timeout
period, the system marks the pool member down and no longer load
balances traffic to that pool member. If all of the pool members are
marked off line and no pool members are available to service the request
then the pool is marked down and thus the virtual server is marked down.
The status of a virtual server works as a parent-child relationship
between the pool and the virtual server.

When the failing health monitor starts to succeed again and at least one
pool member is able to respond, then pool will be marked available and
thus the virtual server will also become available.

----

|

**1.09 - Determine the effect of active versus inline monitors on the
application status or on the LTM device**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-monitors-reference-11-5-0/1.html

**Active Monitoring**

Active monitoring checks the status of a pool member or node on an
ongoing basis as specified. If a pool member or node does not respond
within a specified timeout period, or the status of a node indicates
that performance is degraded, the BIG-IP system can redirect the traffic
to another pool member or node. There are many active monitors. Each
active monitor checks the status of a particular protocol, service, or
application. For example, one active monitor is HTTP. An HTTP monitor
allows you to monitor the availability of the HTTP service on a pool,
pool member, or node. A WMI monitor allows you to monitor the
performance of a node that is running the Windows Management
Instrumentation (WMI) software. Active monitors fall into two
categories: Extended Content Verification (ECV) monitors for content
checks, and Extended Application Verification (EAV) monitors for service
checks, path checks, and application checks.

An active monitor can check for specific responses, and run with or
without client traffic.

Note: An active monitor also creates additional network traffic
beyond the client request and server response and can be slow to
mark a pool member as down.

**Passive monitoring**

Passive monitoring occurs as part of a client request. This kind of
monitoring checks the health of a pool member based on a specified
number of connection attempts or data request attempts that occur within
a specified time period. If, after the specified number of attempts
within the defined interval, the system cannot connect to the server or
receive a response, or if the system receives a bad response, the system
marks the pool member as down. There is only one passive monitor, called
an Inband monitor.

A passive monitor creates no additional network traffic beyond the
client request and server response. It can mark a pool member as down
quickly, as long as there is some amount of network traffic.

Note: A passive monitor cannot check for specific responses and can
potentially be slow to mark a pool member as up.

|


Objective - 1.10 - Given a health monitor configuration and pool member response predict the resulting status of the pool member
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.10 - (Supplemental Example) Given a health monitor configuration and pool member response predict the resulting status of the pool member**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-monitors-reference-11-5-0/1.html

**Monitoring results**

Active monitoring checks the status of a pool member or node on an
ongoing basis as specified. If a pool member or node does not respond
within a specified timeout period, or the status of a node indicates
that performance is degraded, the BIG-IP system can redirect the traffic
to another pool member or node. There are many active monitors. Each
active monitor checks the status of a particular protocol, service, or
application.

For example, we may simply be using an HTTP monitor to monitor the pool
members, in which we send a GET request to the server for a URI path,
and then examine the response to see if it contains the correct RECV
string:

If the expected response contained the value of the RECV string, the
pool member will be marked up immediately. If the expected response did
NOT contain the value of the RECV string, the pool member will be marked
down when the timeout expires.

----

|

**1.10 - Given a set of parameters, predict an outcome of a monitor status on other LTM objects**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-monitors-reference-11-5-0/1.html

**Monitors affecting other LTM Objects**

Health monitoring with a BIG-IP allows you to monitor resources at many
different levels. Monitors are assigned to resources in two areas of the
configuration, at the node level and at the pool level. At the node
level, you can assign monitors to all nodes (Default Monitor) or to each
node (Node Specific). At the pool level, you can assign monitors to all
pool members (Default Pool Monitor) or to each member (Member Specific).

If a monitor at the node level marks the node down, then pool member
that uses the node IP address as its member IP address will
automatically be marked down. This function works as a parent-child
relationship between the node and the pool member. These monitors are
typically network level monitors (ping, TCP half open)

When a pool member that is being monitored by a health monitor does not
respond to a probe from the BIG-IP system within a specified timeout
period, the system marks the pool member down and no longer load
balances traffic to that pool member. If all of the pool members are
marked off line and no pool members are available to service the request
then the pool is marked down and thus the virtual server is marked down.
The status of a virtual server works as a parent-child relationship
between the pool and the virtual server.

When the failing health monitor starts to succeed again and at least one
pool member is able to respond, then pool will be marked available and
thus the virtual server will also become available.

----

|

**1.10 - Determine the effect of a monitor on the status of a node, pool member, pool, and/or virtual server**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-monitors-reference-11-5-0/1.html

**Monitors affecting other LTM Objects**

Health monitoring with a BIG-IP allows you to monitor resources at many
different levels. Monitors are assigned to resources in two areas of the
configuration, at the node level and at the pool level. At the node
level, you can assign monitors to all nodes (Default Monitor) or to each
node (Node Specific). At the pool level, you can assign monitors to all
pool members (Default Pool Monitor) or to each member (Member Specific).

If a monitor at the node level marks the node down, then pool member
that uses the node IP address as its member IP address will
automatically be marked down. This function works as a parent-child
relationship between the node and the pool member. These monitors are
typically network level monitors (ping, TCP half open)

When a pool member that is being monitored by a health monitor does not
respond to a probe from the BIG-IP system within a specified timeout
period, the system marks the pool member down and no longer load
balances traffic to that pool member. If all of the pool members are
marked off line and no pool members are available to service the request
then the pool is marked down and thus the virtual server is marked down.
The status of a virtual server works as a parent-child relationship
between the pool and the virtual server.

When the failing health monitor starts to succeed again and at least one
pool member is able to respond, then pool will be marked available and
thus the virtual server will also become available.

----

|

**1.10 - (Supplemental Example) Describe the functionality of Action On Service Down**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K15095

**Action On Service Down**

The Action On Service Down feature allows the BIG-IP system to choose
another pool member and rebind the client connection to a new server
connection if the target pool member becomes unavailable.

When a pool member fails to respond, as configured, to a health monitor,
the system marks that pool member down, and continues to monitor it to
determine when the member becomes available again. While a pool member
is marked down, the system does not send any new connections to that
pool member.

The Action On Service Down feature specifies how the system should
respond to already-established connections when the target pool member
becomes unavailable.

The available settings for this feature as follows:

**None:**

The BIG-IP system takes no action on existing connections and removes
the connection table entry based on the associated profile's idle
timeout value. The BIG-IP system sends a TCP Reset (RST) or ICMP
Unreachable once idle timeout is reached. This is the default setting.

This is the best option for most common scenarios, as this allows for
endpoints to resume gracefully on their own. This may be a good choice
for clients that transfer large amounts of data, as the pool member may
recover itself before the connection is reset, allowing the large
transfer to continue.

**Reject:**

The BIG-IP system sends RST or ICMP messages to reset active connections
and removes them from the BIG-IP connection table.

This may be a good choice for clients that need to be notified of pool
member state changes sooner than the configured idle timeout period for
that virtual server. Once the target pool member is deemed unavailable,
the BIG-IP system immediately alerts the client by resetting the
connection, causing the client to attempt a new connection.

**Drop:**

The BIG-IP system silently removes the connection table entry.

You should carefully consider this option, as the client receives no
feedback from the BIG-IP system regarding the connection state. However,
this option works well for short-lived, connectionless protocols, such
as UDP. For example, DNS queries.

**Reselect:**

The BIG-IP system manages established client connections by moving them
to an alternate pool member without a connection teardown or setup.

This option is only appropriate for:

-  Virtual servers with address and port translation disabled

Note: This is default for FastL4 type virtual servers, such as
network or wildcard forwarding.

-  Transparent pool members, such as firewalls, routers, proxy servers,
   and cache servers

Note: Transparent devices can forward packets to destinations
without regard for the state of the connection.

-  UDP virtual servers

Note: When choosing the Reselect option for Action on Service Down,
the BIG-IP system does not reform existing TCP connections, but
continues to forward existing connections. If the back-end pool
members are not transparent devices, and the virtual server has
address translation enabled, all existing TCP connections sent to a
pool member will likely reset due to the pool member having no
record of these ongoing connections in its connection table. This is
analogous to choosing the Reset action, except the pool members will
be resetting the connections instead of the BIG-IP system. F5 highly
recommends choosing a different Action on Service Down option, if
you do not meet the above criteria for the Reselect option.

Note: Services, such as HTTP require that the system establish a
transport layer connection before transmitting HTTP messages. This
is commonly referred to as a 3-way handshake and is used by the
client or server to establish communication options and to track
requests or responses. When a server receives a request from a
client without having established the transport layer connection,
normal behavior is for the server to reject the connection by
sending a TCP response with the RST flag set. For more information,
refer to Internet Engineering Task Force (RFC 793), section Reset
Generation. This link takes you to a resource outside of AskF5. The
third party could remove the document without our knowledge.

|

Objective - 1.11 - Given a set of SSL requirements, determine the appropriate profile options
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.11 - (Supplemental Example) Given a set of SSL requirements, determine the appropriate profile options**

`https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip\_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-ssl-administration-11-5-0/4.html - unique\_1136687395 <https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-ssl-administration-11-5-0/4.html#unique_1136687395>`__

OpenSSL supports a set of SSL options and defect workarounds. You can
enable these workarounds and options as settings of an individual
client-side or server-side SSL profile. The default value for the
Options setting is Options List. Retaining the default value enables one
option, which is Don’t insert empty fragments. You can then enable other
options that appear in the Available Options list.

Important: For security reasons, when you enable the Proxy SSL
setting, the BIG-IP system automatically disables the Don’t insert empty
fragments option. Disabling this option when Proxy SSL is enabled guards
against a particular type of cryptographic attack.

Note that when configuring protocol versions, you must ensure that the
protocol versions configured for the BIG-IP system match those of the
system’s peer. That is, protocol versions specified in the client-side
SSL profile must match those of the client, and protocol versions
specified in the server-side SSL profile must match those of the server.
Thus, for both client-side and server-side SSL connections, you can
specify the protocol versions that you do not want the BIG-IP system to
allow.

You can declare up to two of the three protocol versions to be invalid:
SSLv2 , SSLv3, and TLSv1. If no protocol versions are specified, Local
Traffic Manager allows all SSL protocol versions.

Note: F5 recommends that, at a minimum, you specify protocol
version SSLv2 as invalid.

**Workarounds and other SSL options**

This table lists and describes the possible workarounds and options that
you can configure for an SSL profile.

+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **SSL Attribute**                             | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Cipher server preference                      | When the BIG-IP system chooses a cipher, this option uses the server's preferences instead of the client preferences. When this option is not set, the SSL server always follows the client’s preferences. When this option is set, the SSLv3/TLSv1 server chooses by using its own preferences. Due to the different protocol, for SSLv2 the server sends its list of preferences to the client, and the client always chooses the cipher.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Don’t insert empty fragments                  | This option disables a countermeasure against a SSL 3.0/TLS 1.0 protocol vulnerability affecting CBC ciphers. These ciphers cannot be handled by certain broken SSL implementations. This option has no effect for connections using other ciphers. This is the default value for the Options list.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                               | Note: For security reasons, this option is not available when you enable the Proxy SSL setting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Ephemeral RSA                                 | This option uses ephemeral (temporary) RSA keys when doing RSA operations. According to the specifications, this is only done when an RSA key can only be used for signature operations (namely under export ciphers with restricted RSA key length). By setting this option, Local Traffic Manager always uses ephemeral RSA keys. This option breaks compatibility with the SSL/TLS specifications and can lead to interoperability problems with clients, and we therefore do not recommend it. You should use ciphers with EDH (ephemeral Diffie-Hellman) key exchange instead. This option is ignored for server-side SSL.                                                                                                                                                   |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Microsoft session ID bug                      | This option handles a Microsoft session ID problem.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Netscape CA DN bug workaround                 | This option handles a defect regarding system instability. If the system accepts a Netscape® browser connection, demands a client cert, has a non-self-signed CA that does not have its CA in Netscape, and the browser has a certificate, then the system crashes or hangs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Netscape challenge bug                        | This option handles the Netscape challenge problem.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Netscape demo cipher change bug workaround    | This option deliberately manipulates the SSL server session resumption behavior to mimic that of certain Netscape servers (see the Netscape reuse cipher change bug workaround description). We do not recommend this option for normal use and it is ignored for server-side SSL processing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Netscape reuse cipher change bug workaround   | This option handles a defect within Netscape-Enterprise/2.01, only appearing when connecting through SSLv2/v3 then reconnecting through SSLv3. In this case, the cipher list changes. First, a connection is established with the RC4-MD5 cipher list. If it is then resumed, the connection switches to using the DES-CBC3-SHA cipher list. However, according to RFC 2246, (section 7.4.1.3, cipher\_suite) the cipher list should remain RC4-MD5. As a workaround, you can attempt to connect with a cipher list of DES-CBC-SHA:RC4-MD5 and so on. For some reason, each new connection uses the RC4-MD5 cipher list, but any re-connect ion attempts to use the DES-CBC-SHA cipher list. Thus Netscape, when reconnecting, always uses the first cipher in the cipher list.   |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| No SSLv2                                      | Do not use the SSLv2 protocol.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| No SSLv3                                      | Do not use the SSLv3 protocol.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| No session resumption on renegotiation        | When Local Traffic Manager performs renegotiation as an SSL server, this option always starts a new session (that is, session resumption requests are only accepted in the initial handshake). The system ignores this option for server-side SSL processing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| N0 TLSv1                                      | Do not use the TLSv1 protocol.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Microsoft big SSLV3 buffer                    | This option enables a workaround for communicating with older Microsoft® applications that use non-standard SSL record sizes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Microsoft IE SSLV2 RSA padding                | This option enables a workaround for communicating with older Microsoft® applications that use non-standard RSA key padding. This option is ignored for server-side SSL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Passive close                                 | Specifies that the SSL filter helps prevent packets from getting into the TCP half-closed state by waiting for a connection shutdown from the server. This is a workaround for HTTP/1.0 and HTTP/0.9 clients that send an HTTP request followed by a FIN, which immediately closes the connection for server-SSL-only proxies. Instead of closing immediately, the proxy waits for the server to close.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| PKCS1 check 1                                 | This debugging option deliberately manipulates the PKCS1 padding used by SSL clients in an attempt to detect vulnerability to particular SSL server vulnerabilities. We do not recommend this option for normal use. The system ignores this option for client-side SSL processing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| PKCS1 check 2                                 | This debugging option deliberately manipulates the PKCS1 padding used by SSL clients in an attempt to detect vulnerability to particular SSL server vulnerabilities. We do not recommend this option for normal use. The system ignores this option for client-side SSL processing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Single DH use                                 | This option creates a new key when using temporary/ephemeral DH parameters. You must use this option if you want to prevent small subgroup attacks, when the DH parameters were not generated using strong primes (for example, when using DSA-parameters). If strong primes were used, it is not strictly necessary to generate a new DH key during each handshake, but we do recommend this. You should enable the Single DH use option whenever temporary/ephemeral DH parameters are used.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SSLEAY 080 client DH bug workaround           | This option enables a workaround for communicating with older SSLeay-based applications that specify an incorrect Diffie-Hellman public value length. This option is ignored for server-side SSL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SSL Ref2 reuse cert type bug                  | This option handles the SSL re-use certificate type problem.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| TLS D5 bug workaround                         | This option is a workaround for communicating with older TLSv1-enabled applications that specify an incorrect encrypted RSA key length. This option is ignored for server-side SSL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| TLS block padding bug workaround              | This option enables a workaround for communicating with older TLSv1-enabled applications that use incorrect block padding.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| TLS rollback bug workaround                   | This option disables version rollback attack detection. During the client key exchange, the client must send the same information about acceptable SSL/TLS protocol levels as it sends during the first hello. Some clients violate this rule by adapting to the server's answer. For example, the client sends an SSLv2 hello and accepts up to SSLv3.1 (TLSv1), but the server only understands up to SSLv3. In this case, the client must still use the same SSLv3.1 (TLSv1) announcement. Some clients step down to SSLv3 with respect to the server's answer and violate the version rollback protection. This option is ignored for server-side SSL.                                                                                                                        |
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

----

|

**1.11 - Describe the difference between client and server SSL profiles and functionality**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-ssl-administration-11-5-0/3.html

**Differences between Client and Server SSL Profiles**

With LTM, you can enable SSL traffic management for either client-side
traffic or server-side traffic.

Client-side traffic refers to connections between a client system and
the BIG-IP system. Server-side traffic refers to connections between the
BIG-IP system and a target server system:

**Client-side SSL traffic**

When you enable the BIG-IP system to manage client-side SSL traffic, LTM
terminates incoming SSL connections by decrypting the client request.
LTM then sends the request, in clear text, to a target server. Next, LTM
retrieves a clear-text response (such as a web page) and encrypts the
request, before sending the web page back to the client. During the
process of terminating an SSL connection, LTM can, as an option, perform
all of the SSL certificate verification functions normally handled by
the target web server.

You create a custom Client SSL profile when you want the BIG-IP system
to terminate client-side SSL traffic for the purpose of decrypting
client-side ingress traffic and encrypting client-side egress traffic.
By terminating client-side SSL traffic, the BIG-IP system offloads these
decryption/encryption functions from the destination server. When you
perform this task, you can specify multiple certificate key chains, one
for each key type (RSA, DSA, and ECDSA). This allows the BIG-IP system
to negotiate secure client connections using different cipher suites
based on the client's preference.

**Server-side SSL traffic**

When you enable LTM to manage server-side SSL traffic, LTM enhances the
security of your network by re-encrypting a decrypted request before
sending it on to a target server. In addition to this re-encryption, LTM
can, as an option, perform the same verification functions for server
certificates that LTM can for client certificates.

For those sites that require enhanced security on their internal
network, you can configure a Server SSL profile. With a Server SSL
profile, the BIG-IP system re-encrypts the request before sending it to
the destination server. When the server returns an encrypted response,
the BIG-IP system decrypts and then re-encrypts the response, before
sending the response back to the client.

----

|

**1.11 - (Supplemental Example) Describe the difference between client and server SSL processing**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-ssl-administration-11-5-0/3.html

**Differences**

When you want the BIG-IP system to process application traffic over SSL,
you can configure the system to perform the SSL handshake that
destination servers normally perform. This ability for the BIG-IP system
to offload SSL processing from a destination server is an important
feature of the BIG-IP system.

The most common way to configure the BIG-IP system is to create a Client
SSL profile, which makes it possible for the BIG-IP system to decrypt
client requests before sending them on to a server, and encrypt server
responses before sending them back to the client.

Within a Client SSL profile specifically, you can specify multiple
certificate/key pairs, one per key type. This enables the system to
accept all types of cipher suites that a client might support as part of
creating a secure connection. The system then decrypts the client data,
manipulates any headers or payload according to the way that you
configured the Client SSL profile, and by default, sends the request in
clear text to the target server for processing.

For those sites that require enhanced security on their internal
network, you can configure a Server SSL profile. With a Server SSL
profile, the BIG-IP system re-encrypts the request before sending it to
the destination server. When the server returns an encrypted response,
the BIG-IP system decrypts and then re-encrypts the response, before
sending the response back to the client.

----

|

**1.11 - Explain how to configure the different SSL profile settings**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14783

**Client SSL Profiles**

The BIG-IP Client SSL profile enables the BIG-IP system to accept and
terminate client requests that are sent using a fully SSL-encapsulated
protocol. It also provides a number of configurable settings for
managing client-side SSL connections. Typically, you need to set only
some of the available settings and keep the remaining settings at their
default values unless otherwise advised by F5 Technical Support. The
following tables list and describe the BIG-IP Client SSL profile
settings.

Note: This list has been cleaned up for 11.5 settings only.

General Properties

+------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Setting**      | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
+==================+==============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+
| Name             | The**Name** setting is required. To create a Client SSL profile, you must specify a unique name for the profile.                                                                                                                                             |
+------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parent Profile   | This setting specifies an existing profile to use as the parent profile. A profile inherits settings from its parent, unless you override the setting by selecting its \ **Custom**\ box and modifying the value. The default is \ **clientssl** profile.    |
+------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Configuration

This section describes the most commonly used SSL settings for a Client
SSL profile, including, for example, the certificate and key to send to
SSL clients for certificate exchange.

+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Setting**                    | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
+================================+================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+
| Mode                           | Sets the profile state to \ **Enabled** (default) or \ **Disabled** (by clearing the check box). The \ **Mode** setting is introduced in BIG-IP 11.5.0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Certificate                    | The \ **Certificate**\ setting (**Certificate Key Chain** in BIG-IP 11.5.0 and later) is required. By default, the Client SSL profile uses a self-signed certificate, named \ **default.crt**. However, this box is almost always customized to reference a certificate that is specific to the site to which the profile is applied. The SSL certificate must be in Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) format and you must import it to the BIG-IP system with the corresponding key before the certificate and key can be referenced by an SSL profile. For information about importing an SSL certificate and key using the Configuration utility, refer to \ `K14620: Managing SSL certificates for BIG-IP systems using the Configuration utility <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14620>`__. For information about importing an SSL certificate and key using the TMOS Shell (**tmsh**), refer to \ `K14031: Importing the SSL certificate and key using the Traffic Management Shell <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14031>`__.                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | For information about verifying the certificate format, refer to \ `K13349: Verifying SSL certificate and key pairs from the command line (11.x - 13.x) <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13349>`__                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | After importing the SSL certificate and matching key to the BIG-IP system, choose the appropriate certificate from the \ **Certificate**\ setting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Key                            | The \ **Key**\ setting is required. By default, the Client SSL profile uses the built-in key, named \ **default.key**, which matches \ **default.crt**. You must choose the key that matches the configured certificate and the key must be in PEM format. After importing the SSL certificate and matching key to the BIG-IP system, choose the appropriate key from the \ **Key**\ setting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Passphrase                     | The \ **Passphrase**\ setting is optional. It is only required if the key is passphrase-protected. There is no default value for this setting. If your key is passphrase-protected, enter the required passphrase.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Chain                          | The \ **Chain**\ setting is optional. You use this setting to specify a certificate bundle or chain the client can use to establish a trust relationship with a server that presents a certificate signed by an untrusted Certificate Authority (CA). The default value for the \ **Chain**\ setting is \ **None**, indicating that no chain certificate is presented to the client with the server SSL certificate. This setting lists the name of all the SSL certificates installed in the BIG-IP system's SSL certificate store. If you are using certificates signed by an Intermediate CA, F5 recommends that you create and install a bundle that contains the certificates for all of the CAs in the chain between the certificate configured in the SSL profile and a root CA whose certificate is trusted by the expected client base. You can then select the new certificate bundle in the \ **Chain**\ setting. For information about creating and installing a custom certificate bundle, refer to \ `K13302: Configuring the BIG-IP system to use an SSL chain certificate  <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13302>`__\ `(11.x - 13.x) <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13302>`__.      |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | **Note**: Regardless of the \ **Chain**\ setting, if you configure the \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** setting, the system presents the certificate bundle contained in the configured \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** file.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Ciphers                        | The \ **Ciphers**\ setting is optional. By default, the Client SSL profile uses the \ **DEFAULT** cipher string. In most cases, the \ **DEFAULT** cipher string is appropriate, but you can customize it as necessary to meet the security and performance needs of your site. For information about configuring the SSL cipher for an SSL profile, refer to \ `K17370: Configuring the cipher strength for SSL profiles (12.x - 13.x) <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K17370>`__.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Options                        | When enabled (**Options List**), references the \ **Options List** setting, which industry standard SSL options and workarounds use for handling SSL processing. The default setting is \ **All Options Disabled**.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Options List                   | The \ **Options List** setting provides selection from a set of industry standard SSL options and workarounds for handling SSL processing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Proxy SSL                      | The \ **Proxy SSL** setting is introduced in BIG-IP 11.0.0. By default, the \ **Proxy SSL** setting is disabled (cleared). When enabled, the client can directly authenticate with the server, and the server can authenticate with the client, based on the client certificate presented. In a typical setup, with the BIG-IP system in the middle, the client and server cannot communicate directly to authenticate each other. The \ **Proxy SSL**\ setting requires both a Client SSL profile and a Server SSL profile, and you must enable the setting in both profiles. For information about the \ **Proxy SSL** setting, refer to the following resources:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | -  `K13385: Overview of the Proxy SSL feature <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13385>`__                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | -  The \ **Implementing Proxy SSL on a Single BIG-IP system** chapter of the \ **BIG-IP LTM Implementations** manual.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | **Note**: For information about how to locate F5 product manuals, refer to \ `K12453464: Finding product documentation on AskF5 <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K12453464>`__\.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ModSSL Methods                 | **ModSSL Methods** enables or disables ModSSL method emulation. Enable this option when OpenSSL methods are inadequate. For example, enable it when you want to use SSL compression over TLSv1. Disabled (cleared) by default.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Cache Size                     | The \ **Cache Size** setting specifies the maximum number of SSL sessions allowed in the SSL session cache. The default value for \ **Cache Size** is**262144** sessions. For information about the SSL \ **Cache Size** settings, refer to \ `K6767: Overview of the BIG-IP SSL session cache profile settings <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K6767>`__.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Cache Timeout                  | The \ **Cache Timeout** setting specifies the number of seconds that the system allows SSL sessions to remain in the SSL session cache before removing them. The default value for \ **Cache Timeout** is**3600** seconds. The range of values configurable for \ **Cache Timeout** is between \ **0** and**86400** seconds inclusive.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | **Note**: Longer cache timeout periods can increase the risk of SSL session hijacking.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Alert Timeout                  | The \ **Alert Timeout** setting specifies the duration that the system tries to close an SSL connection by transmitting an alert or initiating an unclean shutdown before resetting the connection. The default value for BIG-IP 12.0.0 HF1 and later, as well as BIG-IP 12.1.0 and later, is indefinite. The default value for BIG-IP 11.2.0 -12.0.0 is \ **10** seconds. The default value for BIG-IP 11.0.0 - 11.1.0 is \ **60** seconds. Select \ **Indefinite** to specify that the connection should not be reset after transmitting an alert or initiating an unclean shutdown.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Handshake Timeout              | The \ **Handshake Timeout** setting specifies the number of seconds that the system tries to establish an SSL connection before terminating the operation. The default value for BIG-IP 11.2.0 and later is \ **10** seconds. The default value for BIG-IP 11.0.0 - 11.1.0 is \ **60** seconds. Selecting \ **Indefinite** specifies that the system continues trying to establish a connection for an unlimited time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Renegotiation                  | You can configure the \ **Renegotiation**\ setting to control if the virtual server allows midstream session renegotiation. When enabled (default),**Renegotiation**\ allows the BIG-IP system to process midstream SSL renegotiation requests. When disabled, the system either terminates the connection or ignores the request, depending on system configuration.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Renegotiation Period           | The \ **Renegotiation Period** setting indicates the amount of time before the system renegotiates the SSL session after the initial connection. If you set it to \ **Indefinite** (default), the system does not renegotiate the SSL session.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Renegotiation Size             | Indicates the amount of application data in megabytes the system must receive from the time of initial connection before it renegotiates the SSL session. If set to \ **Indefinite** (default), the system does not renegotiate the SSL session.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Renegotiate Max Record Delay   | Indicates the number of SSL records allowed during the SSL renegotiation before the system terminates the connection. If set to \ **Indefinite**, the system allows an unlimited number. \ **Indefinite** is the default setting in BIG-IP 11.4.0 and later. In BIG-IP 11.0.0 - 11.3.0, the default setting is \ **10**.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Secure Renegotiation           | The BIG-IP SSL profiles support the TLS Renegotiation Indication Extension, which allows you to specify the method of secure renegotiation for SSL connections. The default value for the Client SSL profile is **Require**. The values for the **Secure Renegotiation** setting in the Client SSL profile are as follows:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | -  **Request**: Specifies that the system requests secure renegotiation of SSL connections.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | -  **Require**: Specifies that the system requires secure renegotiation of SSL connections. In this mode, the system permits initial SSL handshakes from clients but terminates renegotiations from clients that do not support secure renegotiation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | -  **Require Strict**: Specifies that the system requires strict, secure renegotiation of SSL connections. In this mode, the system denies initial SSL handshakes from clients that do not support secure renegotiation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Server Name                    | Starting in BIG-IP 11.1.0, the BIG-IP SSL profiles support the TLS Server Named Indication (SNI) extension, which allows the BIG-IP system to select the appropriate SSL profile based on the TLS SNI information provided by the client. The **Server Name** setting specifies the fully qualified DNS hostname of the server, or a wildcard string containing the asterisk * character to match multiple names, used in the TLS SNI connection. There is no default value for this setting. For information about configuring the TLS SNI feature on the BIG-IP system, refer to \ `K13452: Configuring a virtual server to serve multiple HTTPS sites using TLS Server Name Indication feature <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13452>`__.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Default SSL Profile for SNI    | When enabled, this setting indicates that the system should use the profile as the default SSL profile when there is no match to the server name or when the client does not support TLS SNI extension. By default, this setting is disabled (cleared). For information about configuring the TLS SNI feature on the BIG-IP system, refer to \ `K13452: Configuring a virtual server to serve multiple HTTPS sites using TLS Server Name Indication feature <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13452>`__.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Require Peer SNI Support       | When enabled, this setting requires that the client support the TLS SNI extension; otherwise, the BIG-IP system disconnects the client connection with a fatal alert. Disabled (cleared) by default.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Unclean Shutdown               | The SSL protocol performs a clean shutdown of an active TLS/SSL connection by sending a close notify alert to the peer system. The \ **Unclean Shutdown** setting allows the BIG-IP system to perform an unclean shutdown of SSL connections by closing the underlying TCP connection without sending the SSL close notify alerts. By default, this setting is enabled (selected) and is useful for certain browsers that handle SSL shutdown alerts differently. For example, some versions of Internet Explorer require SSL shutdown alerts from the server while other versions do not, and the SSL profile cannot always detect this requirement.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | **Important:** If you disable (clear) the **Unclean Shutdown** check box, some browsers may display blank pages or errors when connecting to the virtual server.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Strict Resume                  | The **Strict Resume** setting enables or disables the resumption of SSL sessions after an unclean shutdown. Disabled (cleared) by default.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Session Ticket                 | Starting in BIG-IP 11.4.0, the BIG-IP SSL profiles support the stateless TLS session resumption mechanism as described in \ `Internet Engineering Task Force (RFC 5077) <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5077.txt>`__. This mechanism allows the BIG-IP system to encapsulate the TLS session state as a ticket to the client and allows the client to subsequently resume a TLS session using the same ticket. Disabled (cleared) by default.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | **Note:** This link takes you to a resource outside of AskF5, and it is possible that the document may be removed without our knowledge.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                | **Note:** The **Session Ticket** option is visible in BIG-IP 11.3.0 but is not functional until BIG-IP 11.4.0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Session Ticket Timeout         | Specifies the timeout for the session ticket. The default is **0** seconds, which means the system uses the cache timeout. The **Session Ticket Timeout** option is introduced in BIG-IP 12.0.0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Generic Alert                  | When enabled (default), this setting causes the system to send all SSL alerts using a generic \ **handshake failure** message. When the setting is disabled, the system sends more specific SSL alert messages. The \ **Generic Alert** setting is introduced in BIG-IP 11.5.0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Non-SSL Connections            | Enables or disables acceptance of non-SSL connections. Disabled (cleared) by default.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SSL Sign Hash                  | Specifies the hash algorithm that the BIG-IP system uses to sign server key exchanges with the Diffie-Hellman (DHE), including Elliptic Curve (ECDHE) ciphers, and for certificate verify messages. Possible choices are \ **SHA1**, \ **SHA256**, \ **SHA384Any**. When you select \ **Any**, you authorize the system to choose any one of the hash algorithms. In this case, the BIG-IP system chooses \ **SHA1** whenever possible. The \ **SSL Sign Hash** setting is introduced in BIG-IP 11.5.0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Client Authentication

The Client Authentication section of the Client SSL profile is specific
to client certificate authentication. Some applications require clients
to establish their identity to the server before proceeding with the SSL
session. Client certificate authentication uses the following sequence
of events:

1. The client requests an SSL connection.

2. The SSL server presents its SSL certificate, and any configured chain
   certificate bundle, to the client.

3. The SSL client uses the CA certificates stored in its Trusted Device
   Certificate store, and the supplied certificate chain, if necessary,
   to authenticate the server.

4. The SSL server requests a client certificate, advertising a list of
   preferred CAs if configured to do so.

5. The SSL client presents its SSL certificate.

6. The SSL server uses its configured, trusted CA certificate bundle, to
   authenticate the client.

+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Setting**                          | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
+======================================+===================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+
| Client Certificate                   | The \ **Client Certificate** setting is required. Enables and disables client certificate authentication. The possible options for the \ **Client Certificate** setting are:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | -  **Ignore**: The \ **Ignore**\ setting is the default setting. It disables Client Certificate Authentication. The BIG-IP system ignores any certificate presented and does not authenticate the client before establishing the SSL session.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | -  **Request**: The \ **Request**\ setting enables optional Client Certificate Authentication. The BIG-IP system requests a client certificate and attempt to verify it. However, an SSL session is established regardless of whether a trusted CA presents a valid client certificate. The \ **Request**\ setting is often used in conjunction with iRules to provide selective access depending on the certificate presented. For example, this option is useful if you want to allow clients who present a certificate from the configured trusted CA to gain access to the application, while redirecting clients who do not provide the required certificate are to a page that details the access requirements. However, if you are not using iRules to enforce a different outcome, depending on the certificate details, there is no functional benefit to using the \ **Request**\ setting instead of the default \ **Ignore**\ setting. In both cases, the system establishes an SSL session, regardless of the certificate presented, and it proxies the connection to the default pool.                                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | -  **Require**: The \ **Require**\ setting enforces Client Certificate Authentication. The BIG-IP system requests a client certificate and attempts to verify it. The system establishes an SSL session only if a trusted CA presents a valid client certificate. Use the \ **Require**\ setting to restrict access to only clients that present a valid certificate from a trusted CA.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | **Note**: The \ **Auto**\ setting is removed in BIG-IP 11.0.0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Frequency                            | The \ **Frequency**\ setting specifies the frequency of client authentication for an SSL session. The default value for this setting is \ **once**.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Retain Certificate                   | Starting in BIG-IP 11.4.0, you can configure the BIG-IP SSL profile to not store a client certificate in an SSL session. Storing a client certificate in an SSL session is typically required in BIG-IP APM deployments only. When this setting is disabled, the client certificate is not stored in an SSL session. Enabled (selected) by default.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Certificate Chain Traversal Depth    | The \ **Certificate Chain Traversal Depth** setting specifies the maximum number of certificates to be traversed in a client certificate chain. The default value is \ **9**.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Trusted Certificate Authorities      | The \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** setting is required only if the BIG-IP system performs Client Certificate Authentication. This setting specifies the BIG-IP system's Trusted Certificate Authorities store (the CAs that the BIG-IP system trusts when the system verifies a client certificate that is presented during Client Certificate Authentication). The default value for the \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** setting is \ **None**, which indicates that no CAs are trusted. The \ **None** value is only appropriate if you do not want to permit Client Certificate Authentication. The SSL server does not need to trust any CA, unless the server performs Client Certificate Authentication. If the BIG-IP Client Certificate Mode is set to \ **Require**, but \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** is set to \ **None**, clients cannot establish SSL sessions with the virtual server. This setting lists the name of all the SSL certificates installed on the BIG-IP system.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | The \ **ca-bundle** certificate may be appropriate for use as a Trusted Certificate Authorities certificate bundle. However, if this bundle is specified as the Trusted Certificate Authorities certificate store, any valid client certificate that is signed by one of the popular Root CAs included in the default \ **ca-bundle.crt** is authenticated. This provides some level of identification but very little access control because almost any valid client certificate could be authenticated. However, when configuring client certificate authentication, it is more common to accept client certificates from one, or a select few, PKIs or private CAs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | If you want to trust only certificates signed by a specific CA or set of CAs, F5 recommends that you create and install a bundle that contains trustworthy CA certificates. The new certificate bundle can then be selected in the \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** setting. For information about creating a custom certificate bundle, refer to \ `K13302: Configuring the BIG-IP system to use an SSL chain certificate (11.x - 13.x) <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13302>`__.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | Beginning in BIG-IP 11.6.0, the bundle can include only the root certificate and/or the intermediate CA signing certificates that signed client certificate. Prior to BIG-IP 11.6.0, the bundle must include the entire chain of CA certificates necessary to establish a chain of trust, as described in the \ **Chain**\ setting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | To support multiple PKI hierarchies, this bundle can contain CA certificates from several different PKIs. The bundle does not need to contain CA certificates from the PKI that signed the server SSL certificate, unless client SSL certificates from that PKI must be validated by the BIG-IP system. However, in practice, Client Certificate Authentication is most commonly used with Private PKIs, and the \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** setting often contains only a certificate or chain from the PKI that signed the server certificate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | You can use the \ **openssl** command to verify the client certificate against the Trusted Certificate Authority bundle prior to importing it onto the BIG-IP system. For example, the following \ **openssl** command verifies the client certificate, \ **client.crt**, against the Trusted Certificate Authority bundle:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | openssl verify -purpose sslclient -CAfile /path/to/trusted-ca-bundle.crt /path/to/client.crt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | If the system can establish the chain of trust can for the server certificate using the specified chain, the command returns output similar to the following example:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | client.crt: OK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | **Important**: Configuring the \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** setting has no effect on client validation of the SSL server certificate that the BIG-IP system presents when it connects to an SSL virtual server. It is the SSL client's responsibility to verify the validity of the SSL server's certificate using its own Trusted Certificate store. However, the certificate bundle contained in the associated \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** file is presented with the server SSL certificate, regardless of the \ **Chain**\ setting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | **Important**: Beginning in BIG-IP 11.5.0, the system no longer presents the certificate bundle contained in the associated \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** file when the \ **Client Certificate** option is set to \ **Request** or**Require**.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Advertised Certificate Authorities   | The \ **Advertised Certificate Authorities** setting is optional. You can use it to specify the CAs that the BIG-IP system advertises as trusted when soliciting a client certificate for client certificate authentication. If the \ **Client Certificate**\ setting is configured to \ **Require**\ or \ **Request**, you can configure the \ **Advertised Certificate Authorities** setting to send clients a list of CAs that the server is likely to trust. The default value for the \ **Advertised Certificate Authorities** setting is \ **None**, indicating that no CAs are advertised. When set to \ **None**, no list of trusted CAs is sent to a client with the certificate request. This setting lists the name of all the SSL certificates installed on the BIG-IP system. If you want to advertise only a specific CA, or set of CAs, F5 recommends that you create and install a bundle that contains the certificates of the CA to advertise. You can then select the new certificate bundle in the \ **Advertised Certificate Authorities** setting. For information about creating a custom certificate bundle, refer to \ `K13302: Configuring the BIG-IP to use an SSL chain certificate (11.x - 13.x) <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13302>`__.     |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | You can configure the \ **Advertised Certificate Authorities** setting to send a list of CAs other than that specified for the Trusted Certificate Authorities. This allows greater control over the configuration information shared with unknown clients. You may not want to reveal the entire list of trusted CAs to a client that does not automatically present a valid client certificate from a trusted CA. Although you can configure the two settings differently, in most cases, you should configure the \ **Advertised Certificate Authorities**\ setting to use the same certificate bundle as the \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** setting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                      | **Important**: Avoid specifying a bundle that contains many certificates when configuring the \ **Advertised Certificate Authorities**\ setting. This minimizes the number of certificates that must be exchanged during a client SSL handshake. The maximum size allowed by the BIG-IP system for native SSL handshake messages is 14,304 bytes. Although typical handshakes do not result in excessive message length, if the SSL handshake is negotiating a native cipher, and the total length of all messages in the handshake exceeds this byte threshold, the handshake will fail.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Certificate Revocation List (CRL)    | The \ **Certificate Revocation List (CRL)**\ setting allows you to specify a CRL that the BIG-IP system should use to check revocation status of a certificate prior to authenticating a client. If you want to use a CRL, you must import it to the BIG-IP system. The name of the CRL file can then be entered in the \ **Certificate Revocation List (CRL)** setting dialog box. For information about importing an SSL CRL file, refer to \ `K14620: Managing SSL certificates for BIG-IP systems using the Configuration utility <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14620>`__. Since CRLs can quickly become outdated, F5 recommends that you use either OCSP or CRLDP profiles for more robust and current verification functionality.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14806

**Server SSL Profiles**

The BIG-IP Server SSL profile enables the BIG-IP system to initiate
secure connections to your SSL servers by using a fully SSL-encapsulated
protocol and providing configurable settings for managing server-side
SSL connections. Typically, you need to set only some of the available
settings, while you should keep the remaining settings at their default
values unless otherwise advised by F5 Technical Support. The BIG-IP
Server SSL profile settings are organized into the following sections
and are described in the tables below.

Note: This list has been cleaned up for 11.5 settings only.

General Properties

+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Setting**      | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
+==================+==================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+
| Name             | The \ **Name**\ setting is required. To create a Server SSL profile, you must specify a unique name for the profile. For more information about the profile name requirements, refer to the following articles:                                                  |
|                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|                  | -  `K6869: Reserved words that should not be used in BIG-IP configurations <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K6869>`__                                                                                                                                         |
|                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|                  | -  `K13209: BIG-IP configuration object names must begin with an alphabetic character <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13209>`__                                                                                                                             |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parent Profile   | This setting specifies an existing profile to use as the parent profile. A profile inherits settings from its parent, unless you override the setting by selecting its \ **Custom**\ box and modifying the value. The default is the \ **serverssl** profile.    |
+------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Configuration

This section describes the most common SSL settings for a Server SSL
profile, for example, the certificate and key to send to SSL servers for
certificate exchange.

+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Setting**                   | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
+===============================+===================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+
| Mode                          | Sets the profile state to Enabled (selected, default) or Disabled (cleared). The \ **Mode** setting was introduced in BIG-IP 11.5.0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Certificate                   | The \ **Certificate** setting is optional. The default value for this setting is \ **None**. When you apply a Server SSL profile to a virtual server, the BIG-IP system acts as an SSL client. If you do not intend for the BIG-IP system to present its client certificate on behalf of clients traversing the virtual server, select \ **None**. If you expect the BIG-IP system to present a client certificate, import the certificate and matching key to the BIG-IP system, and then choose the appropriate certificate from the menu. For information about importing an SSL certificate and key by using the Configuration utility, refer to \ `K14620: Managing SSL certificates for BIG-IP systems using the Configuration utility <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14620>`__. For information about importing an SSL certificate and key using the Traffic Management Shell (**tmsh**) utility, refer to \ `K14031: Importing the SSL certificate and key using the Traffic Management Shell <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14031>`__.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                               | For information about verifying the certificate format, refer to \ `K13349: Verifying SSL certificate and key pairs from the command line (11.x - 13.x) <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13349>`__                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Key                           | The \ **Key** setting is required only for configured certificates. If you have configured a certificate, you must choose the key that matches the configured certificate.  The default value for this setting is \ **None**.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Passphrase                    | The \ **Passphrase** setting is optional. It is only required if the key is passphrase-protected. There is no default value for this setting. If a key is specified and the key is passphrase protected, enter the required passphrase. When no passphrase is configured, the \ **Passphrase**\ field displays an eight-asterisk mask (\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*), giving the appearance that an eight-character password has been configured. The passphrase is encrypted before it is saved in the \ **bigip.conf** file.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Chain                         | The \ **Chain** setting is optional. This setting is used to specify a certificate bundle or chain that the server can use to establish a trust relationship with a client that presents a certificate signed by an untrusted Certificate Authority (CA). The default value for the \ **Chain**\ setting is \ **None**, indicating that the BIG-IP system will not present a chain certificate with its client SSL certificate. This setting lists the name of all the SSL certificates installed in the BIG-IP system's SSL certificate store. If the certificate configured in the Server SSL profile is signed by an Intermediate CA, F5 recommends that you create and install a bundle that contains the certificates of all the CAs in the chain between the certificate configured in the Server SSL profile and a root CA whose certificate is trusted by your SSL servers. The new certificate bundle can then be selected in the \ **Chain**\ setting. For information about creating and installing a custom certificate bundle, refer to \ `K13302: Configuring the BIG-IP system to use an SSL chain certificate  <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13302>`__\ `(11.x - 13.x) <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13302>`__.     |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SSL Forward Proxy Feature     | The \ **SSL Forward Proxy Feature** was introduced in BIG-IP 11.3.0. By default, the \ **SSL Forward Proxy Feature** is disabled (cleared). When enabled, the system encrypts all traffic between a client and the BIG-IP system using one certificate, and encrypts all traffic between the BIG-IP system and the server using a different certificate. The \ **SSL Forward Proxy Feature** requires both a Client SSL profile and a Server SSL profile, and must be enabled in both profiles. For information about using the \ **SSL Forward Proxy Feature**\ setting, refer to the \ **Implementing SSL Forward Proxy on a Single BIG-IP system** chapter of the \ `**BIG-IP LTM Implementations** <https://support.f5.com/content/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm.html>`__ guide.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SSL Forward Proxy Bypass      | Specifies, when checked (enabled), that the system encrypts all traffic between a client and the BIG-IP system using one certificate, and encrypts all traffic between the BIG-IP system and the server using a different certificate. The \ **SSL Forward Proxy Bypass** setting is available starting in BIG-IP 11.5.0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Ciphers                       | The \ **Ciphers** setting is optional. By default, the Server SSL profile uses the \ **DEFAULT** cipher string. In most cases, the default setting is appropriate, but can be customized, as necessary, to meet the security and performance needs of your site. The SSL server selects the cipher used in a particular connection from the ciphers presented by the SSL client. When using Server SSL, the BIG-IP system acts as an SSL client. Although the server decides which cipher to use, you can gain some control by customizing the ciphers presented by the client. For information about configuring the SSL cipher for an SSL profile, refer to:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                               | `K17370: Configuring the cipher strength for SSL profiles (12.x - 13.x) <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K17370>`__                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Options                       | When enabled, (**Options List**) references the \ **Options List** setting, which are industry standard SSL options and workarounds for handling SSL processing. The default setting is \ **All Options Disabled**.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Options List                  | The \ **Options List** setting provides selection from a set of industry standard SSL options and workarounds for handling SSL processing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Proxy SSL                     | The \ **Proxy SSL** setting was introduced in BIG-IP 11.0.0. By default, the **Proxy SSL** setting is disabled (cleared). When enabled, the client is allowed to directly authenticate with the server, and the server can authenticate with the client, based on the client certificate presented. In a typical setup with the BIG-IP system in the middle, the client and server cannot communicate directly to authenticate each other. The \ **Proxy SSL** setting requires both a Client SSL profile and a Server SSL profile, and must be enabled in both profiles. For information about the \ **Proxy SSL** setting, refer to the following resources:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                               | -  `K13385: Overview of the Proxy SSL feature <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13385>`__                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                               | -  The **Implementing Proxy SSL on a Single BIG-IP system** chapter of the **BIG-IP LTM Implementations** guide.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                               |     **Note**: For information about how to locate F5 product guides, refer to \ `*K12453464: Finding product documentation on AskF5* <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K12453464>`__\ .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ModSSL Methods                | The \ **ModSSL Methods** setting enables or disables ModSSL method emulation. Enable this option when OpenSSL methods are inadequate, for example, when you want to use SSL compression over TLSv1. By default, this setting is disabled (cleared).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Cache Size                    | The \ **Cache Size** setting specifies the maximum number of SSL sessions allowed in the SSL session cache. The default value for the \ **Cache Size** setting is**262144** sessions. For information about the SSL \ **Cache Size** settings, refer to \ `K6767: Overview of the BIG-IP SSL session cache profile settings <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K6767>`__.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Cache Timeout                 | The \ **Cache Timeout** setting specifies the number of seconds that SSL sessions are allowed to remain in the SSL session cache before being removed. The default value for the \ **Cache Timeout** setting is \ **3600** seconds. The range of values configurable for the \ **Cache Timeout** setting is between 0 and 86400 seconds, inclusive.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Alert Timeout                 | The \ **Alert Timeout** setting specifies the duration that the system tries to close an SSL connection by transmitting an alert or initiating an unclean shutdown before resetting the connection. The default value for this setting in BIG-IP 12.0.0 HF1 and later as well as BIG-IP 12.1.0 and later is indefinite. The default value for this setting in BIG-IP 11.2.0 through 12.0.0 is \ **10** seconds. The default value for this setting in BIG-IP 11.0.0 through 11.1.0 is \ **60** seconds. You can select \ **Indefinite** to specify that the connection should not be reset after transmitting an alert or initiating an unclean shutdown.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Handshake Timeout             | The \ **Handshake Timeout** setting specifies the number of seconds that the system tries to establish an SSL connection before terminating the operation. The default value for this setting in BIG-IP 11.2.0 and later is \ **10** seconds. The default value for this setting in BIG-IP 11.0.0 through 11.1.0 is \ **60** seconds. You can select \ **Indefinite** to specify that the system should continue to try and establish a connection for an unlimited time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Renegotiation                 | You can configure the \ **Renegotiation** setting to control whether the virtual server allows midstream session renegotiation. When \ **Renegotiation**\ is enabled, the BIG-IP system processes mid-stream SSL renegotiation requests. When \ **Renegotiation**\ is disabled, the system terminates the connection, or ignores the request, depending on the system configuration. By default, this setting is enabled (selected).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Renegotiation Period          | You can configure the \ **Renegotiate Period** setting to control the amount of time, in seconds, that the system waits before renegotiating the SSL session. By default, this setting is set to \ **Indefinite**. When this setting is set to \ **Indefinite**, the system does not renegotiate SSL sessions based on a specified time interval.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Renegotiation Size            | The \ **Renegotiate Size** setting controls the amount of data exchange, in megabytes, before the system renegotiates the SSL session. By default, this setting is set to \ **Indefinite**. When this setting is set to \ **Indefinite**, the system does not renegotiate SSL sessions based on the amount of exchanged data.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Secure Renegotiation          | The BIG-IP SSL profiles support the TLS Renegotiation Indication Extension, which allows the user to specify the method of secure renegotiation for SSL connections. The default value for the Server SSL profile is **Require Strict**. The values for the **Secure Renegotiation** setting in the Server SSL profile are as follows:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                               | -  **Request**: Specifies that the system requests secure renegotiation of SSL connections.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                               | -  **Require**: Specifies that the system requires secure renegotiation of SSL connections. In this mode, SSL connections initiated from the system to an unpatched server fail when renegotiation is enabled.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                               | -  **Require Strict**: Specifies that the system requires strict, secure renegotiation of SSL connections. In this mode, SSL connections that are initiated from the system to an unpatched server fail when renegotiation is enabled.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                               | Within the context of the Server SSL profile, there is no behavioral difference between the  **Require** and **Require Strict** settings. In either mode, initial SSL connections from the BIG-IP system to unpatched servers fail.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Server Name                   | Starting in BIG-IP 11.1.0, the BIG-IP SSL profiles support the TLS Server Named Indication (SNI) Extension, which allows the BIG-IP system to send ClientHello messages with SNI extension. The **Server Name** setting specifies the fully qualified DNS hostname of the server (or a wildcard string containing the asterisk \* character to match multiple names) used in the TLS SNI connection. There is no default value for this setting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Default SSL Profile for SNI   | When enabled, this setting indicates that the system should use the profile as the default SSL profile for connecting to the server. By default, this setting is disabled (cleared).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Require Peer SNI support      | When enabled, this setting requires that the server must support the TLS SNI extension; otherwise, the BIG-IP system disconnects the SSL connection with a fatal alert. By default, this setting is disabled (cleared).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Unclean Shutdown              | The SSL protocol performs a clean shutdown of an active TLS/SSL connection by sending a close notify alert to the peer system. The **Unclean Shutdown** setting allows the BIG-IP system to perform an unclean shutdown of SSL connections by closing the underlying TCP connection without sending the SSL close notify alerts. By default, this setting is enabled (selected).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Strict Resume                 | The \ **Strict Resume** setting enables or disables the resumption of SSL sessions after an unclean shutdown. By default, this setting is disabled (cleared).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Session Ticket                | Starting in BIG-IP 11.4.0, the BIG-IP SSL profiles support the stateless TLS session resumption mechanism as described in \ `Internet Engineering Task Force (RFC 5077) <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5077.txt>`__. This mechanism allows the BIG-IP system to accept a TLS session ticket from the server and subsequently resume a TLS session using the same ticket. By default, this setting is disabled (cleared).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Generic Alert                 | When enabled (default), the system sends all SSL alerts using a generic 'handshake failure' message. When disabled, the system sends more specific SSL alert messages. The \ **Generic Alert** setting was introduced in BIG-IP 11.5.0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SSL Sign Hash                 | Specifies the certificate signature hash algorithm that the BIG-IP advertises in the ClientHello signature\_algorithms extension, and specifies the signature hash algorithm the BIG-IP uses in the Certificate Verify handshake message when using a client certificate. Possible choices are SHA1, SHA256, SHA384, or Any. When you select Any, you authorize the system to choose any one of the hash algorithms. Note that in this case, the BIG-IP system chooses SHA1 whenever possible. The \ **SSL Sign Hash** setting was introduced in BIG-IP 11.5.0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Server Authentication

The Server Authentication section of the Server SSL profile provides
configurable settings for handling server authentication before
proceeding with the SSL session.

+------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Setting**                              | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
+==========================================+==================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+
| Server Certificate                       | The \ **Server Certificate** setting specifies how the system handles server certificates. The possible values for the \ **Server Certificate**\ setting are:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|                                          | -  **Ignore**: The \ **Ignore** setting is the default setting. The BIG-IP system ignores certificates from the server and never authenticates the server.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|                                          | -  **Require**: The \ **Require** setting enforces server authentication. The BIG-IP system requires the server to present a valid certificate before establishing the SSL session. If you select \ **Require** as the \ **Server Certificate** setting, you must also specify a value in the \ **Authenticate Name** setting. A blank \ **Authenticate Name** setting indicates that all servers are authenticated, even though you have specified \ **Require** as the \ **Server Certificate** setting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Expire Certificate Response Control      | The \ **Expire Certificate Response Control** setting was introduced in BIG-IP 11.3.0. This setting specifies how the system handles SSL connections when the server certificate expires. The default value for this setting is \ **drop**, which causes the SSL connection to be dropped. Conversely, configuring this setting to \ **ignore** causes the system to ignore the expired server certificate and proceed with establishing the connection.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Untrusted Certificate Response Control   | The \ **Untrusted Certificate Response Control** setting was introduced in BIG-IP 11.3.0. This setting specifies how the system handles SSL connections when the server certificate has an untrusted CA. The default value for this setting is \ **drop**, which causes the SSL connection to be dropped. Conversely, configuring this setting to \ **ignore** causes the system to ignore the untrusted CA and proceed with establishing the connection.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
+------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Frequency                                | The \ **Frequency** setting specifies the frequency of server authentication for an SSL session. The default value for this setting is \ **Once**, which causes the system to authenticate the server for an SSL session only once. When you configure this setting to \ **Always**, the system authenticates the server for an SSL session and every subsequent reuse of the SSL session.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Retain Certificate                       | Starting in BIG-IP 11.4.0, you can configure the BIG-IP SSL profile to not store a server certificate in an SSL session. When this setting is disabled, the server certificate is not stored in an SSL session. The default value is true (selected).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
+------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Certificate Chain Traversal Depth        | The \ **Certificate Chain Traversal Depth** setting specifies the maximum number of certificates that the system traverses in a server certificate chain. The default value is \ **9**.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
+------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Authenticate Name                        | This setting specifies a Common Name (CN) that is iframeded in a server certificate. The system authenticates a server based on the specified CN. There is no default value for this setting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
+------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Trusted Certificate Authorities          | The \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** setting is optional. The system uses this setting to specify the CAs that the BIG-IP system trusts when verifying a server certificate. The default value for this setting is \ **None**, which causes the system to accept a server certificate signed by any CA. If you select \ **Require** for the \ **Server Certificate** setting, you must specify a CA from the \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** setting. The selected CA will be trusted by the system when verifying a server certificate.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|                                          | The \ **ca-bundle** certificate may be appropriate for use as a Trusted Certificate Authorities certificate bundle. However, if this bundle is specified as the Trusted Certificate Authorities certificate store, any valid server certificate that is signed by one of the popular root CAs included in the default \ **ca-bundle.crt** is authenticated. This provides some level of identification, but very little access control because almost any valid server certificate could be authenticated.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|                                          | If you want to trust only a server certificate that has been signed by a private PKI or set of private PKIs, F5 recommends that you create and install a custom certificate bundle that contains the private PKI certificates, including the CA that directly signed your servers' certificates. You can then select the new certificate bundle in the \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** setting. For information about creating a custom certificate bundle, refer to \ `K13302: Configuring the BIG-IP system to use an SSL chain certificate  <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13302>`__\ `(11.x - 13.x) <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13302>`__.                                                                              |
|                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|                                          | **Important**: Configuring the \ **Trusted Certificate Authorities** setting has no effect on server validation of the SSL server certificate that the BIG-IP system presents when connecting to an SSL server. The SSL server is responsible for verifying the validity of the SSL client's certificate using its own Trusted Certificate store. If you need to specify a chain of trust to support the SSL server's verification of the BIG-IP system's client certificate, refer to your SSL server documentation for configuration details.                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
+------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Certificate Revocation List (CRL)        | The \ **Certificate Revocation List (CRL)** setting allows you to specify a CRL that the BIG-IP system should use to check revocation status of a certificate before the system authenticates a server. If you want to use a CRL, you must import it to the BIG-IP system. You can then select the name of the CRL file from the \ **Certificate Revocation List (CRL)** setting. For information about importing an SSL CRL file, refer to \ `K14620: Managing SSL certificates for BIG-IP systems using the Configuration utility <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14620>`__. Because CRLs can quickly become outdated, F5 recommends that you use either OCSP or CRLDP profiles for more robust and current verification functionality.   |
+------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Allow Expired CRL                        | Instructs the system to use the specified CRL file, even if it has expired. The default is disabled. The \ **Allow Expired CLR** option was introduced in BIG-IP 12.0.0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

----

|

**1.11 - Describe the process to update expired SSL certificates**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14620

**Creating an SSL CSR and private key**

CA signed SSL certificates are typically valid for one or two years. To
avoid warning messages or connectivity issues that may be caused by
expired SSL certificates, you must renew SSL certificates before they
expire. To renew a CA signed SSL certificate, perform the following
procedure.

Note: For more information about monitoring SSL certificate
expiration, refer to the following article: K14318: Monitoring SSL
certificate expiration on the BIG-IP system (11.x - 13.x).

Impact of procedure: Performing the following procedures should not
have a negative impact on your system.

Note: When using this procedure to generate a new CSR and private
key, you must choose a unique Name. Consider appending the current
year for easier accountability. For example, name the CSR and
private key example\_2017.

1.  Log in to the Configuration utility.

2.  Navigate to the SSL Certificate List: System > File Management > SSL Certificate List

3.  Click Create.

4.  Enter a unique Name for the new SSL certificate and key.

5.  From the Issuer list, select Certificate Authority.

6.  Enter the required Common Name. This value is embedded in the certificate for name-based authentication purposes, and is typically the fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) of the server (for example, www.domain.com).

7.  Configure other certificate settings.

8.  In the Key Properties section, select the key type and size.

9.  Optional: If the BIG-IP system supports the FIPS hardware security module (HSM), specify the key type (FIPS or Normal).

10. Click Finished.

11. To download the request into a file on your system, complete one of the following tasks:

    -  Copy the certificate from the Request Text box.

    -  Click the button in the Request File box.

12. Click Finished.

13. After the CSR has been signed and returned by the CA, continue to the next section, Importing an SSL certificate.

**Importing an SSL certificate**

Certificate authorities typically send SSL certificates by email. The
certificate may be included as an attachment or embedded in the body of
the email. You should copy and paste the certificate into a text file
using a text editor. The file should include the BEGIN CERTIFICATE and
END CERTIFICATE lines and contain no white space, extra line breaks, or
additional characters. The text file should appear similar to the
following example:
::

   -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
   
   [encoded data]
   
   -----END CERTIFICATE-----
   
After you have saved the certificate to a text file, you can use the
Configuration utility to import the certificate. To do so, perform the
following procedure:

Note: When using this procedure to import a new SSL certificate, you
must choose a unique Name. Consider appending the current year for
easier accountability. For example, name the SSL certificate
example\_2017.

Impact of procedure: Performing the following procedures should not
have a negative impact on your system.

1. Log in to the Configuration utility.

2. Navigate to the SSL Certificate List: System > File Management > SSL Certificate List

3. Click Import.

4. From the Import Type list, select Certificate.

5. In the Certificate Name section, click Create New.

6. In the Certificate Name box, type a name for the certificate.

7. In the Certificate Source section, click either Upload File or Paste Text.

8. Click Import.

**Importing an SSL private key**

You can use the following procedure to import an existing SSL private key.

Note: When using this procedure to import a new SSL key, you must
choose a unique Name. Consider appending the current year for easier
accountability. For example, name the SSL key example\_2017.

Impact of procedure: Performing the following procedures should not
have a negative impact on your system.

1. Log in to the Configuration utility.

2. Navigate to the SSL Certificate List: System > File Management > SSL Certificate List

3. Click Import.

4. From the Import Type list, select Key.

5. In the Key Name section, click Create New.

6. In the Key Name box, type a unique name for the key.

7. In the Key Source section, click either Upload File or Paste Text.

8. Click Import.

|


Objective - 1.12 - Given a scenario determine the steps required to maintain SSL certificates
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.12 - Describe the process to update expired SSL certificates**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14620

**Creating an SSL CSR and private key**

CA signed SSL certificates are typically valid for one or two years. To
avoid warning messages or connectivity issues that may be caused by
expired SSL certificates, you must renew SSL certificates before they
expire. To renew a CA signed SSL certificate, perform the following
procedure.

Note: For more information about monitoring SSL certificate
expiration, refer to the following article: K14318: Monitoring SSL
certificate expiration on the BIG-IP system (11.x - 13.x).

Impact of procedure: Performing the following procedures should not
have a negative impact on your system.

Note: When using this procedure to generate a new CSR and private
key, you must choose a unique Name. Consider appending the current
year for easier accountability. For example, name the CSR and
private key example\_2017.

1.  Log in to the Configuration utility.

2.  Navigate to the SSL Certificate List: System > File Management > SSL Certificate List

3.  Click Create.

4.  Enter a unique Name for the new SSL certificate and key.

5.  From the Issuer list, select Certificate Authority.

6.  Enter the required Common Name. This value is embedded in the certificate for name-based authentication purposes, and is typically the fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) of the server (for example, www.domain.com).

7.  Configure other certificate settings.

8.  In the Key Properties section, select the key type and size.

9.  Optional: If the BIG-IP system supports the FIPS hardware security module (HSM), specify the key type (FIPS or Normal).

10. Click Finished.

11. To download the request into a file on your system, complete one of the following tasks:

    -  Copy the certificate from the Request Text box.

    -  Click the button in the Request File box.

12. Click Finished.

13. After the CSR has been signed and returned by the CA, continue to the next section, Importing an SSL certificate.

**Importing an SSL certificate**

Certificate authorities typically send SSL certificates by email. The
certificate may be included as an attachment or embedded in the body of
the email. You should copy and paste the certificate into a text file
using a text editor. The file should include the BEGIN CERTIFICATE and
END CERTIFICATE lines and contain no white space, extra line breaks, or
additional characters. The text file should appear similar to the
following example:
::

   -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
   
   [encoded data]
   
   -----END CERTIFICATE-----

After you have saved the certificate to a text file, you can use the
Configuration utility to import the certificate. To do so, perform the
following procedure:

Note: When using this procedure to import a new SSL certificate, you
must choose a unique Name. Consider appending the current year for
easier accountability. For example, name the SSL certificate
example\_2017.

Impact of procedure: Performing the following procedures should not
have a negative impact on your system.

1. Log in to the Configuration utility.

2. Navigate to the SSL Certificate List: System > File Management > SSL Certificate List

3. Click Import.

4. From the Import Type list, select Certificate.

5. In the Certificate Name section, click Create New.

6. In the Certificate Name box, type a name for the certificate.

7. In the Certificate Source section, click either Upload File or Paste Text.

8. Click Import.

**Importing an SSL private key**

You can use the following procedure to import an existing SSL private
key.

Note: When using this procedure to import a new SSL key, you must
choose a unique Name. Consider appending the current year for easier
accountability. For example, name the SSL key example\_2017.

Impact of procedure: Performing the following procedures should not
have a negative impact on your system.

1. Log in to the Configuration utility.

2. Navigate to the SSL Certificate List: System > File Management > SSL Certificate List

3. Click Import.

4. From the Import Type list, select Key.

5. In the Key Name section, click Create New.

6. In the Key Name box, type a unique name for the key.

7. In the Key Source section, click either Upload File or Paste Text.

8. Click Import.

----

|

**1.12 - Explain how to implement SSL chain certificate**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K788

**SSL chain certificate**

Every certificate is signed by its issuer. The issuer is known as the
Certificate Authority (CA) or Issuing Authority. When you receive the
certificate for another entity, you might need to use a certificate
chain to authenticate the entity. The chain, or path, begins with the
certificate of that entity, and each certificate in the chain is signed
by the entity identified by the next certificate in the chain. The chain
terminates with a root CA certificate. The root CA certificate is always
signed by the CA itself. The signatures of all certificates in the chain
must be verified until the root CA certificate is reached. Most popular
SSL clients are pre-configured with a set of well-known trusted root CA
certificates. The PKI (Public Key Infrastructure) Certificate
Authorities, such as Entrust, VeriSign, and Equifax, provide chain
certificates containing all the certificates in the chain required for
popular clients to verify certificates signed by their respective
organizations.

Chain certificate file details

A chain certificate file contains the public certificates for each
Certificate Authority in the chain leading to a trusted CA. If a
certificate is not signed directly by a root CA trusted by the client,
the client will attempt to verify its authenticity by following an
explicit chain of authority from the Certificate Authority signing the
certificate to the trusted first tier Certificate Authority. There may
be one or more intermediate CA certificates included in the chain. The
chain must include each CA between the certificate signer and the
trusted root CA. The certificate chain may be contained in a file,
separate from the certificate (Entrust, Equifax and VeriSign all use
this method), or within the same file as the certificate.

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K788

**Implementing Chain Certificates**

You must meet the following prerequisites to use these procedures:

-  You must have the public root or intermediate certificate from the
   Certificate Authority (CA) that signs the SSL certificate.

-  You must have command line access to the BIG-IP system if you need to
   create a custom certificate bundle.

Description

Chain certificates are used to help systems that depend on SSL
certificates for peer identification. The chain certificate creates a
chain of trust between the CA that signed the certificate and the CA
that is already trusted by the recipient of the certificate. This allows
the recipient to verify the validity of the certificates presented, even
when the signing CA is unknown.

When a client connects to a virtual server using a Client SSL profile
that has a chain certificate configured, the BIG-IP system presents the
certificate bundle with the SSL server certificate. If an SSL server
certificate used in Client SSL profiles is signed by an Intermediate CA
whose certificate is not contained in the SSL client's Trusted
Certificate store, the client will not explicitly trust the SSL server
certificate. However, if the client trusts the certificate of another CA
further up the same hierarchy, the SSL server can present a chain of
certificates that establish a chain of trust to a root CA whose
certificate is trusted by the SSL client. Since the SSL client trusts
the root CA, and the root CA, in turn, trusts the intermediate CA, the
SSL client implicitly trusts the SSL server certificate.

For example, in a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) that consists of a
root CA and two Intermediate CAs, the bundle should consist of the three
CA certificates (Root CA, Intermediate-1 CA, Intermediate-2 CA). When a
client connection uses this profile, the BIG-IP system presents all four
certificates to the client (the three CA certificates plus the server
certificate).

For example:
::

   Root CA -\|
   -> Intermediate-1 CA -\|--> Chain Bundle = These three CA certificates
   -> Intermediate-2 CA -\|
   -> site certificate

If the client already has the root CA certificate in its Trusted
Certificate store, and the BIG-IP system presents the Intermediate CA
certificates (1 and 2), the client can establish a chain of trust to the
root CA. If the client already has both the root CA certificate and the
Intermediate-1 CA certificate in its Trusted Certificate store, and the
BIG-IP system presents the Intermediate CA-2 certificate, the client can
establish a chain of trust to the Intermediate-1 CA.

Important: Putting the root CA certificate in the certificate bundle is
optional, and will never cause the client to trust the root CA. This
would defeat the purpose of third-party validation, since trusted CAs
should be predetermined and their certificates intentionally installed
on the client. Presenting the root CA in the chain is simply a courtesy
on the SSL server's part, potentially providing the client the option to
manually accept and install any of the required certificates in their
Trusted Certificate store. For example, in popular client browsers, the
user may see a message asking Would you like to install this
certificate? If using a private PKI, this may be an acceptable way to
distribute the required CA certificates. However, if using well-known
public PKIs, manually accepting and installing a CA certificate is not
required to verify the authenticity of a server certificate.

The BIG-IP Configuration utility provides a means of importing SSL
certificates and configuring the SSL profiles to use the imported SSL
certificates. However, if you need to create a custom certificate bundle
(for example, from a private CA), you will need to perform additional
steps from the command line.

Using a custom chain certificate

To create and use a custom chain certificate (also known as an
intermediate certificate chain), you must perform the following three
procedures:

-  Importing the intermediate certificates to the BIG-IP system

-  Creating the custom chain certificate

-  Configuring an SSL profile to use the chain certificate

Importing the intermediate certificates to the BIG-IP system

Impact of procedure: Performing the following procedure should not have
a negative impact on your system.

BIG-IP 11.0.0 - 12.1.2

1. Log in to the Configuration utility.

2. Navigate to System > File Management > SSL Certificate List.

3. Click Import.

4. In the Import Type list, click Certificate.

5. In the Certificate Name box, type a unique name.

6. Click Browse, and then browse to the location of the certificate or certificate bundle.

7. To import the certificate or certificate bundle to the BIG-IP system, click Import.

Creating the custom chain certificate

If you are using certificates signed by a private CA, you may need to
build your own chain certificate. To do so, perform the following
procedure:

Impact of procedure: Performing the following procedure should not have
a negative impact on your system.

Note: Before completing the following procedure, import all of the
necessary certificates from your private CA to the BIG-IP system.

1. Log in to the command line.

2. To create a chain certificate file, use the following command syntax:
::

    cat /config/filestore/files\_d/<partition>\_d/certificate\_d/<cert
    name A> <(echo -e \\\\r)
    /config/filestore/files\_d/<partition>\_d/certificate\_d/<cert name
    B> <(echo -e \\\\r) ... > /var/tmp/<chain cert name>

Note: The <(echo -e \\\\r) command substitution adds a carriage
return after each certificate. The ... characters represent
additional certificates to be appended to the chain file.

For example, to create the chain certificate file named mychain.crt,
use the following imported intermediate certificates:
::

    :Common:intermediateCA\_A.crt\_1 in the Common partition

    :MyPart:intermediateCA\_B.crt\_1 in the MyPart partition

To do so, type the following command:
::

    cat
    /config/filestore/files\_d/Common\_d/certificate\_d/:Common:intermediateCA\_A.crt\_1
    <(echo -e \\\\r)
    /config/filestore/files\_d/MyPart\_d/certificate\_d/:MyPart:intermediateCA\_B.crt\_1
    > /var/tmp/mychain.crt

3. To verify whether the chain certificate creates a chain of trust to the SSL certificate, use the following command syntax:
::

    openssl verify -purpose [sslserver\|sslclient] -CAfile
    /var/tmp/<chain cert name>
    /config/filestore/files\_d/<partition>\_d/certificate\_d/<cert name>

For example, to verify the server SSL certificate MyCert.crt in the
Common partition using the chain certificate mychain.crt, created in
step 2, type the following command:
::

    openssl verify -purpose sslserver -CAfile /var/tmp/mychain.crt
    /config/filestore/files\_d/Common\_d/certificate\_d/:Common:MyCert.crt\_1

If the chain of trust can be established for the certificate using
the specified chain, the command returns output that appears similar
to the following example:
::

    MyCert.crt: OK

3. To import the chain certificate, use the following command syntax:
::

    tmsh install sys crypto cert <chain cert name> from-local-file
    <path/to/chain/cert>

For example, import the chain certificate mychain.crt created in
step 2 with the name MyChain by typing the following command:
::

    tmsh install sys crypto cert MyChain from-local-file
    /var/tmp/mychain.crt

4. To save the configuration, type the following command:
::

    tmsh save sys config

Configuring an SSL profile to use the custom chain certificate

You can configure a Client SSL or Server SSL profile to use the imported
chain certificate. Any virtual servers that use the Client SSL or Server
SSL profile will present the chain certificate with the configured
certificate. To do so, perform one of the following two procedures:

Note: As with all profile customizations, F5 recommends that you not
edit the supplied default profiles on the BIG-IP system. Instead, you
should create new custom profiles based on the default profile of the
desired type. If non-default profile settings (such as ciphers and
certificate chains) are used for all custom child profiles, you should
consider first creating a new custom profile with the non-default base
settings, and then use the new custom profile as the parent for a second
generation of custom child profiles.

BIG-IP 11.5.0 - 11.6.2

Impact of procedure: Performing the following procedure should not have
a negative impact on your system.

1. Log in to the Configuration utility.

2. Navigate to Local Traffic > Profiles > SSL.

3. Click Client or Server.

4. Click the name of the Client SSL or Server SSL profile.

5. If it is not already selected, select Custom check box for Certificate Key Chain.

6. In the Certificate Key Chain box.

7. From the Chain box, click the appropriate chain certificate.

8. Click Add.

9. To save the modifications, click Update.

Using a CA-provided chain certificate

To use a CA-provided chain certificate, perform the following two procedures:

-  Importing the chain certificate to the BIG-IP system

-  Configuring an SSL profile to use the chain certificate

You can obtain intermediate certificates or chain certificates for a
Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) from the certificate vendor. The
intermediate certificate or chain certificate must be in PEM format. The
most common VeriSign intermediate certificates are the Secure Site
certificate and the Secure Site Pro certificate, available at the
following location:

New VeriSign CA certificates

Note: This link takes you to a resource outside of AskF5, and it is
possible that the documents may be removed without our knowledge.

Importing the chain certificate to the BIG-IP system

Impact of procedure: Performing the following procedure should not have
a negative impact on your system.

BIG-IP 11.0.0 - 12.1.2

1. Log in to the Configuration utility.

2. Click System > File Management > SSL Certificate List.

3. Click Import.

4. In the Import Type box, click Certificate.

5. In the Certificate Name box, type a unique name.

6. Click Browse, and then browse to the location of the certificate or
   certificate bundle.

7. To import the certificate or certificate bundle to the BIG-IP system, click Import.

Configuring an SSL profile to use the CA-provided chain certificate

You can configure a Client SSL or Server SSL profile to use the imported
chain certificate; any virtual servers that use the Client SSL or Server
SSL profile will present the chain certificate with the configured
certificate. To do so, perform one of the following procedures:

Note: As with all profile customizations, F5 recommends that you not
edit the supplied default profiles on the BIG-IP system. Instead, you
should create new custom profiles based on the default profile of the
desired type. If non-default profile settings (such as ciphers and
certificate chains) are used for all custom child profiles, you should
consider first creating a new custom profile with the non-default base
settings, and then use the new custom profile as the parent for a second
generation of custom child profiles.

BIG-IP 11.5.0 - 11.6.2

Impact of procedure: Performing the following procedure should not have
a negative impact on your system.

1. Log in to the Configuration utility.

2. Click Local Traffic > Profiles > SSL.

3. Click Client or Server.

4. Click the name of the Client SSL or Server SSL profile.

5. If it is not already selected, select Custom check box for Certificate Key Chain.

6. In the Chain box, click the appropriate chain certificate.

7. Click Add.

8. To save the modifications, click Update.

|


Objective - 1.13 - Given a set of application requirements, determine the appropriate virtual server type to use
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.13 –Describe the relationship between profiles and virtual servers**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/6.html#unique_980637508

**Profiles and virtual servers**

Once you have created a profile for a specific type of traffic, you
implement the profile by associating that profile with one or more
virtual servers.

You associate a profile with a virtual server by configuring the virtual
server to reference the profile. Whenever the virtual server receives
that type of traffic, Local Traffic Manager applies the profile settings
to that traffic, thereby controlling its behavior. Thus, profiles not
only define capabilities per network traffic type, but also ensure that
those capabilities are available for a virtual server.

Because certain kinds of traffic use multiple protocols and services,
users often create multiple profiles and associate them with a single
virtual server.

For example, a client application might use the TCP, SSL, and HTTP
protocols and services to send a request. This type of traffic would
therefore require three profiles, based on the three profile types TCP,
Client SSL, and HTTP.

Each virtual server lists the names of the profiles currently associated
with that virtual server. You can add or remove profiles from the
profile list, using the BIG-IP Configuration utility. Note that Local
Traffic Manager (LTM) has specific requirements regarding the
combinations of profile types allowed for a given virtual server.

In directing traffic, if a virtual server requires a specific type of
profile that does not appear in its profile list, Local Traffic Manager
uses the relevant default profile, automatically adding the profile to
the profile list. For example, if a client application sends traffic
over TCP, SSL, and HTTP, and you have assigned SSL and HTTP profiles
only, LTM automatically adds the default profile tcp to its profile
list.

At a minimum, a virtual server must reference a profile, and that
profile must be associated with a UDP, FastL4, Fast HTTP, or TCP profile
type. Thus, if you have not associated a profile with the virtual
server, Local Traffic Manager adds a udp, fastl4, fasthttp, or tcp
default profile to the profile list.

The default profile that Local Traffic Manager chooses depends on the
configuration of the virtual server’s protocol setting. For example, if
the protocol setting is set to UDP, Local Traffic Manager adds the udp
profile to its profile list.

----

|

**1.13 - Describe which steps are necessary to complete prior to
creating the virtual server**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/2.html#conceptid

**Configuring Virtual Servers**

When creating virtual server objects in the configuration utility or the
GUI you will need to do a few tasks prior to jumping into building the
virtual server. It is true that you can create a simple virtual server
in the GUI without doing anything prior because the GUI will allow you
to build the Pool and Node objects on the fly inside the virtual server
creation task. If you are creating a new virtual server in the
configuration utility you will have to create all necessary
configuration objects that the virtual server will need to use for its
creation.

It is always a good idea to have an established object naming convention
figured out prior to configuring any objects as well as a good
understanding of IP addresses to be used for the virtual server
creation.

The objects you should create are as follows:

1. Health monitors for nodes and pool members

2. SNAT pools

3. Any necessary profiles

4. Any necessary iRules

5. Nodes that will be used in the pool members

6. Pool and pool members

----

|

**1.13 - Describe the security features when creating a virtual server (i.e., VLAN limitation, route domains, packet filters, iRules)**

**Virtual Server Security**

A virtual server is essentially a listener that will be taking in and
processing traffic on the BIG-IP platform. Some of the biggest security
risks when configuring a virtual server are how it is listening, where
it is listening and who can get to it. If you are configuring a virtual
server and not setting the necessary settings to restrict these areas of
concern you are opening yourself up to security risks.

**How is the Virtual Server Listening?**

The broader you set a virtual server to listen the greater the risk of
unintended inbound traffic. An application based virtual server should
typically be configured to listen on the default port for the
application. For example, if you are configuring a virtual server for a
new HTTP based website you would listen on port 80. If you listen on all
ports (\*), the virtual server will take in traffic destine for the
virtual server on all 65535 ports of the IP address. And if the pool
members for the virtual server are also listening on all ports (\*), it
will send traffic to the servers on the port it arrived on the virtual
server.

If you need to listen on multiple ports for the same IP address you can
approach this in two different ways. You can build a virtual server for
each necessary port using the same IP address or you can build one
virtual server on all ports and use an iRule to restrict the allowed
inbound connections to your list of ports.

**Where is the Virtual Server Listening?**

When you configure a virtual server, you tell the BIG-IP where you want
it to listen for traffic destined for the IP address of the virtual
server. This virtual server setting is the VLAN and Tunnel Traffic
setting. By default, the setting is set to All VLANs and Tunnels. Which
means the BIG-IP will listen on all VLANs. You are probably thinking,
ARP is only going to happen on the local subnet’s VLAN, which is true.
So, what can it possibly mean to listen on all VLANs? When this setting
is set to all VLANs it means that if traffic comes to BIG-IP destined
for the virtual server address from a VLAN that is not the VLAN of the
virtual server IP address, it will still take the traffic in on VLAN
interface that it arrived on. BIG-IP is a default deny device but in
setting the setting to All VLANS and Tunnels you have told the system to
listen on all VLANs for traffic to the virtual server and allow it in.

|

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/tmos-ip-routing-administration-11-5-0/2.html

**Route Domains**

A route domain is a configuration object that isolates network traffic
for a particular application on the network.

Because route domains segment network traffic, you can assign the same
IP address or subnet to multiple nodes on a network, provided that each
instance of the IP address resides in a separate routing domain in the
BIG-IP system. This feature will allow you to isolate traffic and let
upstream devices such as firewalls apply policy to the connections
between systems.

|

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/tmos-concepts-11-5-0/14.html

**Packet Filters**

Packet filters enhance network security by specifying whether a BIG-IP
system interface should accept or reject certain packets based on
criteria that you specify. Packet filters enforce an access policy on
incoming traffic. They apply to incoming traffic only.

You implement packet filtering by creating packet filter rules, using
the BIG-IP Configuration utility. The primary purpose of a packet filter
rule is to define the criteria that you want the BIG-IP system to use
when filtering packets. Examples of criteria that you can specify in a
packet filter rule are:

-  The source IP address of a packet

-  The destination IP address of a packet

-  The destination port of a packet

You specify the criteria for applying packet filter rules within an
expression. When creating a packet filter rule, you can instruct the
BIG-IP system to build an expression for you, in which case you need
only choose the criteria from predefined lists, or you can write your
own expression text, using the syntax of the tcpdump utility. For more
information on the tcpdump utility, see the online man page for the
tcpdump command.

You can also configure global packet filtering that applies to all
packet filter rules that you create. The following sections describe how
to use the Configuration utility to set global packet filtering options,
as well as create and manage individual packet filters rules.

|

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/18.html

**iRules**

You can use iRules to restrict traffic in almost any way you can think
of. You can set an iRule to keep connections from happening when coming
from a certain IP address range or to a certain URI path in the HTTP
request.

----

|

**1.13 - Explain the effect of changing different virtual server types**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14163

**Changing virtual server types**

Each virtual server that you configure will have a type and the type
designates how the virtual server will process the traffic it allows in
as a listener. If you change the type of an existing virtual server it
is likely that the virtual server will no longer process the traffic
that it is allowing in to the BIG-IP in the same way.

You should expect to see many questions that involve knowing what type
of virtual server should be used in different scenarios, as well as, if
a type were used what the outcome would be. The following table lists
the virtual server type options and defines each virtual server type:

+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Virtual server type**   | **Description of virtual server type**                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Standard                  | A Standard virtual server directs client traffic to a load balancing pool and is the most basic type of virtual server. It is a general purpose virtual server that does everything not expressly provided by the other type of virtual servers.   |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Forwarding (Layer 2)      | A Forwarding (Layer 2) virtual server typically shares the same IP address as a node in an associated VLAN. A Forwarding (Layer 2) virtual server is used in conjunction with a VLAN group.                                                        |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Forwarding (IP)           | A Forwarding (IP) virtual server forwards packets directly to the destination IP address specified in the client request. A Forwarding (IP) virtual server has no pool members to load balance.                                                    |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Performance (Layer 4)     | A Performance (Layer 4) virtual server has a FastL4 profile associated with it. A Performance (Layer 4) virtual server increases the speed at which the virtual server processes packets.                                                          |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Performance (HTTP)        | A Performance (HTTP) virtual server has a FastHTTP profile associated with it. The Performance (HTTP) virtual server and related profile increase the speed at which the virtual server processes HTTP requests.                                   |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Stateless                 | A Stateless virtual server improves the performance of UDP traffic in specific scenarios.                                                                                                                                                          |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Reject                    | A Reject virtual server rejects any traffic destined for the virtual server IP address.                                                                                                                                                            |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| DHCP Relay                | A DHCP Relay virtual server relays DHCP client requests for an IP address to one or more DHCP servers, and provides DHCP server responses with an available IP address for the client. (11.1.0 and later)                                          |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Internal                  | An Internal virtual server enables usage of ICAP servers to modify HTTP requests and responses by creating and applying an ICAP profile and adding Request Adapt or Response Adapt profiles to the virtual server. (11.3.0 and later)              |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

|


Objective - 1.14 - Given a set of application requirements, determine the appropriate virtual server configuration settings
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.14 - Explain the effect of changing different virtual server options: types, configuration settings, and/or resource settings**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip\_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/13.html

At a high level, a virtual server is a listener that takes in traffic.
And the type of virtual server tells the BIG-IP how to handle the
traffic (i.e. should the traffic be load balanced, routed, etc.). The
configuration settings explain the details of how to process the traffic
(i.e. is this TCP based Traffic at layer 4, is this HTTP based traffic
at layer 7, should we process this traffic to layer 7, should we decrypt
this traffic, should we persist the traffic). And lastly, the resource
of the virtual server tells the BIG-IP where to send it(i.e. should we
send it to a pool, should we send it to an iRule for further decision
making).

A virtual server has a number of properties and settings that you can
configure to affect the way that a virtual server manages traffic. You
can also assign certain resources to a virtual server, such as a load
balancing pool and various policies. Together, these properties,
settings, and resources represent the definition of a virtual server,
and most have default values. When you create a virtual server, you can
either retain the default values or adjust them to suit your needs.

If you have created a virtual server that is a load balancing type of
virtual server, one of the resources you must assign to the virtual
server is a default load balancing pool. A default pool is the pool to
which Local Traffic Manager sends traffic if no iRule or policy exists
that specifies a different pool. Note that if you plan on using an iRule
or policy to direct traffic to a pool, you must assign the iRule or
policy as a resource to the virtual server.

|

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/11.html

**Protocol Settings**

Protocol profiles support parameters concerning timeouts in connection
management.

Making changes to these profiles directly affects the behaviors
connections at layer 4 for the associated virtual server. If the
protocol profile is currently being used and you make a change to the
profile it can break the existing layer 4 connections using that
profile. Making a change to a parent protocol profile can not only
affect the connections using that profile where it is assigned but also
any connections using a child of that parent profile.

All virtual servers have at least one protocol profile associated with
them. While the HTTP Class is a protocol profile for configuration
purposes, it cannot be the sole profile of any virtual server and must
always be combined with both the TCP and HTTP profile.

The protocol profiles types are:

-  Fast L4

-  Fast HTTP

-  UDP

-  SCTP

For each protocol profile type, BIG-IP Local Traffic Manager provides a
pre-configured profile with default settings. In most cases, you can use
these default profiles as is. If you want to change these settings, you
can configure protocol profile settings when you create a profile, or
after profile creation by modifying the profile’s settings.

To configure and manage protocol profiles, log in to the BIG-IP
Configuration utility, and on the Main tab, expand Local Traffic, and
click Profiles.

**The Fast L4 profile type**

The purpose of a Fast L4 profile is to help you manage Layer 4 traffic
more efficiently. When you assign a Fast L4 profile to a virtual server,
the Packet Velocity® ASIC (PVA) hardware acceleration within the BIG-IP
system can process some or all of the Layer 4 traffic passing through
the system. By offloading Layer 4 processing to the PVA hardware
acceleration, the BIG-IP system can increase performance and throughput
for basic routing functions (Layer 4) and application switching (Layer
7).

You can use a Fast L4 profile with these types of virtual servers:
Performance (Layer 4), Forwarding (Layer 2), and Forwarding (IP).

**PVA hardware acceleration**

Once you implement a Fast L4 profile, Local Traffic Manager
automatically selects the most efficient PVA hardware acceleration mode
for Layer 4 traffic, if PCVA is supported on the specific BIG-IP
platform. Possible modes are Full, Assisted, and None.

The particular hardware acceleration mode that Local Traffic Manager
selects depends on these factors:

**The Fast L4 profile settings**

The mode that the BIG-IP selects is influenced by the way that you
configure the settings of the Fast L4 profile.

**The virtual server configuration**

The mode that Local Traffic Manager selects is influenced by the
specific features that you assigned to the virtual server (such as
pools, SNAT pools, and iRules).

**A monitor assigned to associated nodes**

For full PVA acceleration, you must assign monitors to the relevant
nodes.

**The value of the PVA Acceleration setting**

The PVA Acceleration setting in the Fast L4 profile defines the maximum
amount of hardware acceleration that you want to allow, for Layer 4
traffic passing through the virtual server. Therefore, if you set the
value to:

-  Full: The system can set hardware acceleration to any of the three
   modes (Full, Assisted, or None), depending on the virtual server
   configuration. This is the default value.

-  Assisted: The system can set hardware acceleration to either Assisted
   or None mode, depending on the virtual server configuration.

-  None: The system does not perform hardware acceleration.

Depending on the current mode to which hardware acceleration is
automatically set, Local Traffic Manager accelerates Layer 4 traffic

Important: If you have a VLAN group configured on the BIG-IP system
and its Transparency Mode setting is set to Translucent or Transparent,
Local Traffic Manager automatically sets the PVA Acceleration value to
None.

**The Fast HTTP profile type**

The Fast HTTP profile is a configuration tool designed to speed up
certain types of HTTP connections. This profile combines selected
features from the TCP, HTTP, and OneConnect profiles into a single
profile that is optimized for the best possible network performance.
When you associate this profile with a virtual server, the virtual
server processes traffic packet-by-packet, and at a significantly higher
speed.

You might consider using a Fast HTTP profile when:

-  You do not need features such as remote server authentication, SSL
   traffic management, and TCP optimizations, nor HTTP features such as
   data compression, pipelining, and RAM Cache.

-  You do not need to maintain source IP addresses.

-  You want to reduce the number of connections that are opened to the
   destination servers.

-  The destination servers support connection persistence, that is,
   HTTP/1.1, or HTTP/1.0 with Keep-Alive headers. Note that IIS servers
   support connection persistence by default.

-  You need basic iRule support only (such as limited Layer 4 support
   and limited HTTP header operations). For example, you can use the
   iRule events CLIENT\_ACCEPTED, SERVER\_CONNECTED, and HTTP\_REQUEST.

A significant benefit of using a Fast HTTP profile is the way in which
the profile supports connection persistence. Using a Fast HTTP profile
ensures that for client requests, Local Traffic Manager can transform or
add an HTTP Connection header to keep connections open. Using the
profile also ensures that Local Traffic Manager pools any open
server-side connections. This support for connection persistence can
greatly reduce the load on destination servers by removing much of the
overhead caused by the opening and closing of connections.

Note: The Fast HTTP profile is incompatible with all other profile
types. Also, you cannot use this profile type in conjunction with
VLAN groups, or with the IPv6 address format.

You can use the default fasthttp profile as is, or create a custom Fast
HTTP profile.

**The TCP profile type**

TCP profiles are configuration tools that help you to manage TCP network
traffic. Many of the configuration settings of TCP profiles are standard
SYSCTL types of settings, while others are unique to Local Traffic
Manager.

TCP profiles are important because they are required for implementing
certain types of other profiles. For example, by implementing TCP, HTTP,
Rewrite, HTML, and OneConnect profiles, along with a persistence
profile, you can take advantage of various traffic management features,
such as:

-  Content spooling, to reduce server load

-  OneConnect, to pool idle server-side connections

-  Layer 7 session persistence, such as hash or cookie persistence

-  iRules for managing HTTP traffic

-  HTTP data compression

-  HTTP pipelining

-  URI translation

-  HTML content modification

-  Rewriting of HTTP redirections

The BIG-IP system includes several pre-configured TCP profiles that you
can use as is. In addition to the default tcp profile, the system
includes TCP profiles that are pre-configured to optimize LAN and WAN
traffic, as well as traffic for mobile users. You can use the
pre-configured profiles as is, or you can create a custom profile based
on a pre-configured profile and then adjust the values of the settings
in the profiles to best suit your particular network environment.

To access the full set of TCP profiles, log in to the BIG-IP BIG-IP
Configuration utility and navigate to Acceleration > Profiles > TCP or
Local Traffic > Profiles > Protocol > TCP.

**The UDP profile type**

The UDP profile is a configuration tool for managing UDP network
traffic.

Because the BIG-IP system supports the OpenSSL implementation of
datagram Transport Layer Security (TLS), you can optionally assign both
a UDP and a Client SSL profile to certain types of virtual servers.

**The SCTP profile type**

Local Traffic Manager includes a profile type that you can use to manage
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) traffic. Stream Control
Transmission Protocol (SCTP) is a general-purpose, industry-standard
transport protocol, designed for message-oriented applications that
transport signaling data. The design of SCTP includes appropriate
congestion-avoidance behavior, as well as resistance to flooding and
masquerade attacks.

Unlike TCP, SCTP includes the ability to support several streams within
a connection. While a TCP stream refers to a sequence of bytes, an SCTP
stream represents a sequence of messages.

You can use SCTP as the transport protocol for applications that require
monitoring and detection of session loss. For such applications, the
SCTP mechanisms to detect session failure actively monitor the
connectivity of a session.

----

|

**1.14 - Differentiate between client side and server side settings**

**Client side and Server side**

The concept of Client side and server side is important for most
administrators to understand. The concept is straight forward but very
important to remember that in a full proxy environment we need to think
about the connections from client to server as multiple connections and
thus the actions that need to be taken or processing that has to happen
may need to be done in different ways on either side of the proxy.

A few of the profile settings in the configuration of a virtual server
provide the option to use a separate client side and server side
profile. This gives the administrator the ability to process traffic
different on each side of the proxied connection for protocol level
traffic and for SSL termination and encryption. For example, you could
set a TCP profile for a virtual server that is WAN optimized for the
client side and LAN optimized for the server side. This is better known
as TCP express and is a very powerful function that the BIG-IP can
perform.

|

Objective - 1.15 - Explain the matching order of multiple virtual servers
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.15 - Explain how to configure source addresses from which virtual servers can accept traffic**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14800

**BIG-IP system's order of precedence for virtual server matching**

Starting in BIG-IP 11.3.0, you can configure source addresses from which
virtual servers accept traffic. The BIG-IP system uses the destination
address, source address, and service port configuration to determine the
order of precedence applied to new inbound connections. When a
connection matches multiple virtual servers, the BIG-IP system uses an
algorithm that places virtual server precedence in the following order:

-  Destination address

-  Source address

-  Service port

Note: Neither the numerical order of virtual server IP addresses nor the
order in which they are listed in the configuration affect BIG-IP
performance.

When configuring a virtual server with a source address, you should be
as specific as possible when defining the destination and source
addresses for your application environment.

This algorithm uses the following order of precedence.

+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| **Order**   | **Destination**     | **Source**          | **Service port**   |
+=============+=====================+=====================+====================+
| 1           | <host address>      | <host address>      | <port>             |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 2           | <host address>      | <host address>      | \*                 |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 3           | <host address>      | <network address>   | <port>             |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 4           | <host address>      | <network address>   | \*                 |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 5           | <host address>      | \*                  | <port>             |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 6           | <host address>      | \*                  | \*                 |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 7           | <network address>   | <host address>      | <port>             |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 8           | <network address>   | <host address>      | \*                 |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 9           | <network address>   | <network address>   | <port>             |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 10          | <network address>   | <network address>   | \*                 |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 11          | <network address>   | \*                  | <port>             |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 12          | <network address>   | \*                  | \*                 |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 13          | \*                  | <host address>      | <port>             |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 14          | \*                  | <host address>      | \*                 |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 15          | \*                  | <network address>   | <port>             |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 16          | \*                  | <network address>   | \*                 |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 17          | \*                  | \*                  | <port>             |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
| 18          | \*                  | \*                  | \*                 |
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+

|

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K9038

Multiple source and destination listeners

Beginning in BIG-IP 11.3.0, the only local traffic object that can
create a listener for new connection requests matching the source and
destination host or network IP address is the following:

-  Virtual Servers (Source Address / Destination Address)

Connection matching multiple Virtual Servers

When a new connection request matches multiple virtual servers, the
BIG-IP system places a higher precedence on the virtual server listener
with a more specific IP destination address/netmask.

For example, when the BIG-IP system receives a new connection request
from source IP address 192.168.20.1 to destination IP address
192.168.10.1, the virtual server listener destination 192.168.10.1 and
source 192.168.20.0/24 will have a higher precedence than virtual server
listener destination 192.168.10.0/24 and source 192.168.20.1.

|


Objective - 1.16 - Given a scenario, determine the appropriate load balancing method(s)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.16 - (Supplemental Example) Identify the behavior of the application to be load balanced**

**Application behavior**

The key to choosing which load balancing method to use for an
application, is to understand the behavior of the application. What
understanding the behavior really means is, to understand how users
access and use the application. Every application will have somewhat
different client access behaviors. You will need to gather as much
information as you can to gain an understanding of how the application
is used. Sometimes this may mean using the application yourself.

If the application is used the same by every user, and the amount of
data transmitted and length of the connection time to the application is
the same for every user; then Round Robin will likely work well for the
application. If you have disparate hardware all servicing the same
application, you may want to use a ratio-based algorithm.

But as the transmitted size of the content and length of the session
varies more you will need to move to dynamic algorithms. Dynamic load
balancing methods take into account one or more dynamic factors, such as
current connection count or even server system performance. Because each
application is unique, and distribution of load can depend on a number
of different factors, it is recommended that you experiment with
different load balancing methods and select the one that offers the best
performance in your particular application.

----

|

**1.16 - Differentiate different load balancing methods**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/5.html

**Load Balancing Methods**

There are many different types of load balancing algorithms that can be
used to decide how connections are distributed across a group of servers
that are hosting an application or service. All of these can be grouped
into two different types of algorithms, static and dynamic.

Some examples of static load balancing algorithms are Round-Robin and
Ratio. These types of algorithms do not take any environmental
information into consideration and simply do what they are defined to do
for connection distribution. Round-Robin may work well for short-lived,
simple connections that return about the same amount of data in all
responses. Ratio is typically used when the servers in the group are not
all of equal capacity, or licensing levels differ per server and an
uneven load should go to one server over the other in the group.

Some examples of dynamic load balancing algorithms are least connections
and fastest. These types of algorithms can be affected by environmental
information and use that information to make a better server choice.
Least Connections looks at current connection counts at Layer 4 to the
server and choses the server with the least connections. Fastest looks
at the outstanding Layer 7 request and choses the server with the lowest
amount.

**Local Traffic Manager load balancing methods**

+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Method                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | When to use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Round Robin                                   | This is the default load balancing method. Round Robin mode passes each new connection request to the next server in line, eventually distributing connections evenly across the array of machines being load balanced.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Round Robin mode works well in most configurations, especially if the equipment that you are load balancing is roughly equal in processing speed and memory.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Ratio (member)                                | Local Traffic Manager distributes connections among pool members or nodes in a static rotation according to ratio weights that you define. In this case, the number of connections that each system receives over time is proportionate to the ratio weight you defined for each pool member or node. You set a ratio weight when you create each pool member or node.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | These are static load balancing methods, basing distribution on user-specified ratio weights that are proportional to the capacity of the servers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Ratio (node)                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Dynamic Ratio (member) Dynamic Ratio (node)   | The Dynamic Ratio methods select a server based on various aspects of real-time server performance analysis. These methods are similar to the Ratio methods, except that with Dynamic Ratio methods, the ratio weights are system-generated, and the values of the ratio weights are not static. These methods are based on continuous monitoring of the servers, and the ratio weights are therefore continually changing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | The Dynamic Ratio methods are used specifically for load balancing traffic to RealNetworks\ :sup:`®` RealSystem\ :sup:`®` Server platforms, Windows\ :sup:`®` platforms equipped with Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI), or any server equipped with an SNMP agent such as the UC Davis SNMP agent or Windows 2000 Server SNMP agent.                                                                                        |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                               | Note: To implement Dynamic Ratio load balancing, you must first install and configure the necessary server software for these systems, and then install the appropriate performance monitor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Fastest (node)                                | The Fastest methods select a server based on the least number of current sessions. These methods require that you assign both a Layer 7 and a TCP type of profile to the virtual server.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | The Fastest methods are useful in environments where nodes are distributed across separate logical networks.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Fastest (application)                         | Note: If the OneConnect feature is enabled, the Least Connections methods do not include idle connections in the calculations when selecting a pool member or node. The Least Connections methods use only active connections in their calculations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Least Connections (member)                    | The Least Connections methods are relatively simple in that Local Traffic Manager passes a new connection to the pool member or node that has the least number of active connections.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | The Least Connections methods function best in environments where the servers have similar capabilities. Otherwise, some amount of latency can occur.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Least Connections (node)                      | Note: If the OneConnect feature is enabled, the Least Connections methods do not include idle connections in the calculations when selecting a pool member or node. The Least Connections methods use only active connections in their calculations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | For example, consider the case where a pool has two servers of differing capacities, A and B. Server A has 95 active connections with a connection limit of 100, while server B has 96 active connections with a much larger connection limit of 500. In this case, the Least Connections method selects server A, the server with the lowest number of active connections, even though the server is close to reaching capacity.   |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | If you have servers with varying capacities, consider using the Weighted Least Connections methods instead.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Weighted Least Connections (member)           | Like the Least Connections methods, these load balancing methods select pool members or nodes based on the number of active connections. However, the Weighted Least Connections methods also base their selections on server capacity.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Weighted Least Connections methods work best in environments where the servers have differing capacities.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Weighted Least Connections (node)             | The Weighted Least Connections (member) method specifies that the system uses the value you specify in Connection Limit to establish a proportional algorithm for each pool member. The system bases the load balancing decision on that proportion and the number of current connections to that pool member. For example, member\_a has 20 connections and its connection limit is 100, so it is at 20% of capacity. Similarly, member\_b has 20 connections and its connection limit is 200, so it is at 10% of capacity. In this case, the system select selects member\_b. This algorithm requires all pool members to have a non-zero connection limit specified.   | For example, if two servers have the same number of active connections but one server has more capacity than the other, Local Traffic Manager calculates the percentage of capacity being used on each server and uses that percentage in its calculations.                                                                                                                                                                         |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                               | The Weighted Least Connections (node) method specifies that the system uses the value you specify in the node's Connection Limit setting and the number of current connections to a node to establish a proportional algorithm. This algorithm requires all nodes used by pool members to have a non-zero connection limit specified.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                               | If all servers have equal capacity, these load balancing methods behave in the same way as the Least Connections methods.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                               | Note: If the OneConnect feature is enabled, the Weighted Least Connections methods do not include idle connections in the calculations when selecting a pool member or node. The Weighted Least Connections methods use only active connections in their calculations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Observed (member)                             | With the Observed methods, nodes are ranked based on the number of connections. The Observed methods track the number of Layer 4 connections to each node over time and create a ratio for load balancing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | The need for the Observed methods is rare, and they are not recommended for large pools.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Observed (node)                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Predictive (member)                           | The Predictive methods use the ranking methods used by the Observed methods, where servers are rated according to the number of current connections. However, with the Predictive methods, Local Traffic Manager analyzes the trend of the ranking over time, determining whether a nodes performance is currently improving or declining. The servers with performance rankings that are currently improving, rather than declining, receive a higher proportion of the connections.                                                                                                                                                                                     | The need for the Predictive methods is rare, and they are not recommended for large pools.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Predictive (node)                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Least Sessions                                | The Least Sessions method selects the server that currently has the least number of entries in the persistence table. Use of this load balancing method requires that the virtual server reference a type of profile that tracks persistence connections, such as the Source Address Affinity or Universal profile type.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | The Least Sessions method works best in environments where the servers or other equipment that you are load balancing have similar capabilities.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|                                               | Note: The Least Sessions methods are incompatible with cookie persistence.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

----

|

**1.16 - Explain how to perform outbound load balancing**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-implementations-11-5-0/2.html

**Outbound Load Balancing**

You might find that as your network grows, or network traffic increases,
you require an additional connection to the Internet. You can use this
configuration to add an Internet connection to your existing network.
The following illustration shows a network configured with two Internet
connections.

Illustration of ISP load balancing

|

.. image:: /_static/301a/p7.png

|

ISP load balancing (Outbound Load Balancing)

Task summary for ISP load balancing

**Creating a pool of outbound routers**

You can a create load balancing pool, which is a logical set of devices,
such as web servers, that you group together to receive and process
traffic, to efficiently distribute the load on your resources. Using
this procedure, create one pool to load balance the routers.

1. On the Main tab, click Local Traffic > Pools. The Pool List screen opens.

2. Click Create. The New Pool screen opens.

3. In the Name field, type a unique name for the pool.

4. For the Health Monitors setting, in the Available list, select a monitor type, and click << to move the monitor to the Active list.

5. From the Load Balancing Method list, select how the system distributes traffic to members of this pool. The default is Round Robin.

6. For the Priority Group Activation setting, specify how to handle priority groups:

   -  Select Disabled to disable priority groups. This is the default option.

   -  Select Less than, and in the Available Members field, type the minimum number of members that must remain available in each priority group in order for traffic to remain confined to that group.

7. Using the New Members setting, add each resource that you want to include in the pool:

   -  Either type an IP address in the Address field, or select a node address from the Node List.

   -  Type a port number in the Service Port field, or select a service name from the list.

   -  To specify a priority group, type a priority number in the Priority field.

   -  Click Add.

8. Click Finished.

The load balancing pool appears in the Pools list.

**Creating a virtual server for outbound traffic for routers**

You must create a virtual server to load balance outbound connections.
The default pool that you assign as a resource in this procedure is the
pool of routers.

1. On the Main tab, click Local Traffic > Virtual Servers. The Virtual Server List screen displays a list of existing virtual servers.

2. Click the Create button. The New Virtual Server screen opens.

3. In the Name field, type a unique name for the virtual server.

4. Specify the Destination setting, using the Address field; type the IP address you want to use for the virtual server. The IP address you type must be available and not in the loopback network.

5. In the Resources area of the screen, from the Default Pool list, select a pool name.

6. Click Finished.

The virtual server is configured to load balance outbound connections to
the routers.

**Creating self IP addresses an external VLAN**

You must assign two self IP addresses to the external VLAN.

1. On the Main tab, click Network > Self IPs. The Self IPs screen opens.

2. Click Create. The New Self IP screen opens.

3. In the IP Address field, type an IP address. This IP address should represent the network of the router. The system accepts IP addresses in both the IPv4 and IPv6 formats.

4. In the Netmask field, type the network mask for the specified IP address.

5. Select External from the VLAN list.

6. Click Repeat.

7. In the IP Address field, type an IP address. This IP address should represent the address space of the VLAN that you specify with the VLAN/Tunnel setting. The system accepts IP addresses in both the IPv4 and IPv6 formats.

8. Click Finished. The screen refreshes, and displays the new self IP address in the list.

The self IP address is assigned to the external VLAN.

**Enabling SNAT automap for internal and external VLANs**

You can configure SNAT automapping on the BIG-IP system for internal and
external VLANs.

1. On the Main tab, click Local Traffic > SNATs. The SNAT List screen displays a list of existing SNATs.

2. Click Create.

3. Name the new SNAT.

4. From the Translation list, select automap.

5. For the VLAN List setting, in the Available field, select external and external, and using the Move button, move the VLANs to the Selected field.

6. Click Finished.

SNAT automapping on the BIG-IP system is configured for internal and
external VLANs.

|
|

**1.16 - Explain how persistence and pool member status effects load balancing decisions**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/5.html#unique_1882440537

**Pool member availability**

You can specify a minimum number of health monitors. Before Local
Traffic Manager can report the pool member as being in an up state, this
number of monitors, at a minimum, must report a pool member as being
available to receive traffic.

You can enable or disable individual pool members. When you enable or
disable a pool member, you indirectly set the value of the pool member’s
State property, in the following way:

-  Enable sets the State property of the pool member to Enabled.

-  Disable sets the State property of the pool member to Disabled.

Note that the difference between a disabled pool member and a pool
member that a monitor reports as down is that a disabled pool member
continues to process persistent and active connections. Conversely, a
pool member reported as down processes no connections whatsoever.

The status icons on the pool-member list screen and properties screen
indicate whether a pool member is currently enabled or disabled.

|

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/10.html#conceptid

**Persistence and Load Balancing**

When you configure session persistence, Local Traffic Manager tracks and
stores session data, such as the specific pool member that serviced a
client request. The primary reason for tracking and storing session data
is to ensure that client requests are directed to the same pool member
throughout the life of a session or during subsequent sessions. So, if
you configure persistence, the first call to the application by the user
will be load balanced to the best available pool member according to the
algorithm but all additional calls by that user will be sent to that
same pool member based on the persistence type’s criteria regardless of
the algorithm.

|

Objective - 1.17 - Given a scenario, describe how to configure or modify pool settings
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.17 - Describe priority group activation within a pool**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/5.html

**Pool features**

**About priority-based member activation**

Priority-based member activation is a feature that allows you to
categorize pool members into priority groups, so that pool members in
higher priority groups accept traffic before pool members in lower
priority groups. The priority-based member activation feature has two
configuration settings:

**Priority group activation**

For the priority group activation setting, you specify the minimum
number of members that must remain available in each priority group in
order for traffic to remain confined to that group. The allowed value
for this setting ranges from 0 to 65535. Setting this value to 0
disables the feature (equivalent to using the default value of
Disabled).

**Priority group**

When you enable priority group activation, you also specify a priority
group for each member when you add that member to the pool. Retaining
the default priority group value of 0 for a pool member means that the
pool member is in the lowest priority group and only receives traffic
when all pool members in higher priority groups are unavailable.

If the number of available members assigned to the highest priority
group drops below the number that you specify, the BIG-IP system
distributes traffic to the next highest priority group, and so on.

For example, this configuration has three priority groups, 3, 2, and 1,
with the priority group activation value (shown here as min active
members) set to 2.

pool my\_pool { lb\_mode fastest min active members 2 member
10.12.10.7:80 priority 3 member 10.12.10.8:80 priority 3 member
10.12.10.9:80 priority 3 member 10.12.10.4:80 priority 2 member
10.12.10.5:80 priority 2 member 10.12.10.6:80 priority 2 member
10.12.10.1:80 priority 1 member 10.12.10.2:80 priority 1 member
10.12.10.3:80 priority 1 }

Connections are first distributed to all pool members with priority 3
(the highest priority group). If fewer than two priority 3 members are
available, traffic is directed to the priority 2 members as well. If
both the priority 3 group and the priority 2 group have fewer than two
members available, traffic is directed to the priority 1 group. The
BIG-IP system continuously monitors the priority groups, and whenever a
higher priority group once again has the minimum number of available
members, the BIG-IP system limits traffic to that group.

----

|

**1.17 - Describe the effects of Slow Ramp Time**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14804

**Slow Ramp Time**

When a previously unavailable pool member becomes available (for
example, after having been marked down by a health monitor, manually
disabled, or forced offline), connection requests can overload the new
pool member, depending on the pool's load balancing method. For example,
if you configure a pool to use the Least Connections load balancing
method, the system load balances all new connections to the new pool
member because the new pool member has the least amount of connections.

The Slow Ramp Time feature (enabled by default) is used to slowly
increase the number of connection requests that are load balanced to a
new pool member. The Slow Ramp Time setting controls the percentage of
connections that are sent to a new pool member by specifying the
duration, in seconds, that a pool member is in slow ramp mode. For
example, if the Slow Ramp Time setting is set to 10 seconds (the default
setting), when a newly enabled pool member has been available for one
second, the system begins load balancing 1/10 of the connections that
would have been sent to the new pool member had the Slow Ramp Time
setting been disabled. Each second thereafter, the system increases the
amount of traffic load balanced to the new pool member. So, after the
pool member has been available for nine seconds, the system is load
balancing 90 percent of the normal load to that pool member. When the
pool member has been available for longer than the Slow Ramp Time value,
the pool member receives its full proportion of the incoming traffic.

Note: Setting the Slow Ramp Time setting to a value of 0 (zero) disables
the Slow Ramp Time feature of the pool.

The Slow Ramp Time setting represents an approximate number of seconds
that the pool member remains in slow ramp mode. When a pool member is
marked-up, Traffic Management Microkernel (TMM) sets a slow ramp flag
for the pool member. The slow ramp timer then commences when the new
pool member becomes active, and TMM updates the new pool member's slow
ramp status for each subsequent load balanced connection to the pool
member.

Note: Beginning in BIG-IP 11.3.0, TMM also updates the slow ramp status
for a pool member when processing persisted connections.

When TMM is updating the slow ramp status for a pool member, if the slow
ramp time has elapsed, TMM clears the slow ramp flag. Depending on the
rate at which connections are received, a new pool member's slow ramp
flag may remain set longer than the duration of the Slow Ramp Time
setting specifies because TMM checks the slow ramp flag status only
while processing connection requests.

In most production environments, the rate at which connections are
received is sufficient for the Slow Ramp Time setting to act as a timer.
However, in environments with a low connection rate, such as a test
environment, a pool configured to use priority groups could experience
unexpected behavior. For example, a lower priority pool member may
remain in the active priority group longer than the Slow Ramp Time
setting indicates.

Consider the following factors when the BIG-IP system uses priority
groups and the Slow Ramp Time setting is enabled:

-  Beginning in BIG-IP 11.0.0, a pool member does not count toward a
   pool's priority group minimum-up requirements until the pool member
   is no longer in slow ramp mode.

-  In BIG-IP versions prior to 11.0.0, pool members are immediately
   counted toward the minimum-up requirements. As a result, load
   balancing could fail for the duration of the slow-ramp period. For
   more information, refer to K13100: Load balancing may fail when the
   Slow Ramp Time pool setting is enabled with priority groups.

Recommendations

-  You should not disable the Slow Ramp Time pool setting if you use
   dynamic load balancing methods. If the Slow Ramp Time setting is
   disabled, the statistics for a new pool member could affect the load
   balancing algorithm and overload the pool member.

-  For a production environment with a low connection rate that is
   configured to use priority groups, disabling the Slow Ramp Time
   setting may improve how quickly active priority groups are adjusted
   when a pool member's availability changes.

----

|

**1.17 - Describe how an iRule can effect the persistence behavior**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/10.html

**iRules and Persistence**

Instead of configuring a persistence profile, which enables a
persistence type for all sessions passing through the virtual server,
you can write an iRule, which enables a persistence type for particular
requests (for example, for HTTP traffic that includes a certain cookie
version only).

You can also use an iRule to enable persistence for SSL-terminated
requests, that is, requests that Local Traffic Manager terminates by
performing decryption and re-encryption and by handling SSL certificate
authentication. In iRules of this type, you can use an HTTP header
insertion iRule command to insert an SSL session ID as a header into an
HTTP request.

You can assign a persistence profile from within an iRule as you can
most profiles. But there is a persistence method that specifically
relies on an iRule to function. This type of persistence is known as
Universal Persistence.

Universal Persistence

Included in Local Traffic Managers Universal Inspection Engine (UIE) is
a set of functions that you can specify within BIG-IP system iRules to
direct traffic in more granular ways. Using these iRule functions, you
can write expressions that direct traffic based on content data, or
direct traffic to a specific member of a pool.

Universal persistence takes this iRules feature one step further, by
allowing you to use the iRule persist uie command to implement
persistence for sessions based on content data or based on connections
to a specific member of a pool. Universal persistence does this by
defining some sequence of bytes to use as a session identifier.

To use iRule expressions for persistence, a universal persistence
profile includes a setting that specifies the name of the iRule
containing the expression.

*Sample iRule for universal persistence*
::

   rule my_persist\_irule {
    when HTTP_REQUEST { persist uie [HTTP::header myheader] }
   }

Unlike hash persistence, which uses a hash of the data as the
persistence key, universal persistence uses the data itself as the
persistence key.

Note: F5 recommends that you configure a OneConnect profile in
addition to the Universal profile, to ensure that Local Traffic Manager
load balances HTTP requests correctly.

----

|

**1.17 - Explain how load balancing decisions are impacted by the statistics of nodes or pool members**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K10430

**Statistics Impacting Load Balancing Methods**

The load balancing algorithm is the primary mechanism that determines
how connections are distributed across pool members. You can define
static or dynamic load balancing methods for a pool. Certain load
balancing methods are designed to distribute requests evenly across pool
members, and other load balancing methods are designed to favor higher
performing servers, possibly resulting in uneven traffic distribution
across pool members.

Static load balancing methods

Certain static load balancing methods are designed to distribute traffic
evenly across pool members. For example, the Round Robin load balancing
method causes the BIG-IP system to send each incoming request to the
next available member of the pool, thereby distributing requests evenly
across the servers in the pool. However, when a static load balancing
method such as Round Robin is used along with a BIG-IP configuration
object that affects load distribution, such as a OneConnect profile or a
persistence profile, traffic may not be evenly distributed across BIG-IP
pool members as expected.

Dynamic load balancing methods

Dynamic load balancing methods typically favor higher performing servers
and may result in uneven traffic distribution across pool members.
Dynamic load balancing methods are designed to work with servers that
differ in processing speed and memory. For example, when a dynamic load
balancing method such as the Observed method is defined for a pool,
higher performing servers process more connections over time than lower
performing servers. As a result, connection statistics for the higher
performing servers exceed those for lower performing severs.

Some dynamic load balancing methods, such as Least Connections, base the
decision of which available pool member to choose from the pool member’s
amount of Layer 4 connections.

|

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K6406

Least Connections mode

The Least Connections load balancing mode is a dynamic load balancing
algorithm that distributes connections to the server that is currently
managing the fewest open connections at the time the new connection
request is received.

Ratio Least Connections mode

Starting in BIG-IP LTM 11.0.0, the Ratio Least Connections load
balancing mode specifies that the system selects the pool member
according to the ratio of the number of connections each pool member has
active.

Note: Excluding the Ratio Least Connections mode load balancing
selection, members configured with a Ratio must reference a ratio load
balancing method to use the applied ratios.

Fastest mode

The Fastest load balancing mode load balances based on the number of
outstanding Layer 7 (L7) requests to a pool member. When the BIG-IP
system receives a L7 request, the BIG-IP system increments a counter for
the pool member handling the connection. The BIG-IP system decrements
this counter when the corresponding L7 response is received from the
node. For requests presented to the node, this counter represents the
current number of those requests that have not yet received a response.
The Fastest methods may be particularly useful in environments where
nodes are distributed across different logical networks. Virtual servers
using this load balancing mode must be configured with both a L7
Services profile and a TCP profile. If a L7 Services profile is not
configured for the virtual server, the Fastest algorithm will not
operate as documented.

Note: An outstanding request is one that has not yet received a
response. The BIG-IP system maintains a counter of outstanding L7
requests for each pool member.

Observed mode

The Observed mode dynamic load balancing algorithm calculates a dynamic
ratio value which is used to distribute connections among available pool
members. The ratio is based on the number of Layer 4 (L4) connections
last observed for each pool member. Every second, the BIG-IP system
observes the number of L4 connections to each pool member and assigns a
ratio value to each pool member. When a new connection is requested,
Observed mode load balances the connections based on the ratio values
assigned to each pool member, preferring the pool member with the
greatest ratio value.

Predictive mode

The Predictive mode dynamic load balancing algorithm ranks server
performance over time and prefers pool members that exhibit an
improvement in performance over those that exhibit a decline. The BIG-IP
system calculates a dynamic ratio value based on the number of L4
connections to each pool member over time. Every second, the BIG-IP
system observes the number of L4 connections to each pool member,
compares it to the previous connection counts to determine the relative
performance trend, and assigns a ratio value to each pool member. If the
connection count is unchanged, the system does not change the ratio
value. If the connection count is increasing for a pool member, the
system reduces the ratio value for that pool member. If the connection
counts are decreasing on a particular pool member, the system increases
its ratio value. When a new connection is requested, Predictive mode
load balances the connections based on the ratio values that the system
has assigned to each pool member, preferring the pool member with the
greatest ratio value.

Predictive mode uses the same metric as Observed mode (concurrent
connections). However, since the algorithm takes into account the
ongoing performance trend, Predictive mode more aggressively adjusts the
pool member ratios. As a result, Predictive mode may result in better
performance than Observed mode for some applications.

----

|

**1.17 - Explain the effects of action on service down**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K15095

**Action On Service Down**

When a pool member fails to respond to a health monitor, the system
marks that pool member down. Persistence entries associated with the
pool member are removed when a new connection matches the entry or when
the timeout period is reached. If a new connection matches a persistence
record that has not timed out, the BIG-IP system removes the old
persistence record and creates a new entry.

The Action On Service Down feature specifies how the system should
respond to already-established connections when the target pool member
becomes unavailable.

The following table describes the available settings for this feature.

+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Setting**    | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | **Usage**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
+================+====================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+
| **None**       | The BIG-IP system takes no action on existing connections, and removes the connection table entry based on the associated profile's idle timeout value. The BIG-IP system sends a **TCP Reset** (**RST**) or **ICMP Unreachable** once idle timeout is reached. This is the default setting.       | This is the best option for most common scenarios, as this allows for endpoints to resume gracefully on their own. This may be a good choice for clients that transfer large amounts of data, as the pool member may recover itself before the connection is reset, allowing the large transfer to continue.   |
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Reject**     | The BIG-IP system sends **RST** or **ICMP** messages to reset active connections and removes them from the BIG-IP connection table.                                                                                                                                                                | This may be a good choice for clients that need to be notified of pool member state changes sooner than the configured idle timeout period for that virtual server.                                                                                                                                            |
|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Once the target pool member is deemed unavailable, the BIG-IP system immediately alerts the client by resetting the connection, causing the client to attempt a new connection.                                                                                                                                |
|                | **Note**: This selection is named "**reset**" instead of "**reject**" when using the TMOS Shell (**tmsh**).                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Drop**       | The BIG-IP system silently removes the connection table entry.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | You should carefully consider this option, as the client receives no feedback from the BIG-IP system regarding the connection state.                                                                                                                                                                           |
|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | However, this option works well for short-lived, connectionless protocols, such as UDP. For example, DNS queries.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Reselect**   | The BIG-IP system manages established client connections by moving them to an alternate pool member without a connection teardown or setup.                                                                                                                                                        | This option is only appropriate for:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|                | **Note:** The **Reselect** action is not performed when a Standard virtual server is configured with a TCP profile and has port and address translation disabled. This is analogous to using the **None** option.                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | -  Virtual servers with address and port translation disabled                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | **Note**: This is the default for FastL4 type virtual servers, such as network or wildcard forwarding.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | -  Transparent pool members, such as firewalls, routers, proxy servers, and cache servers                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | **Note**: Transparent devices can forward packets to destinations without regard for the state of the connection.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | -  UDP virtual servers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

|

Objective - 1.18 - Explain the effect of configuration options and resource health on load balancing decisions
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.18 - (Supplemental Example) Explain the effect of configuration options and resource health on load balancing decisions**

There are many configuration settings and resource status that can
affect load balancing decisions. The following are a few of the more
common.

**Load Balancing Algorithm’s Mode (Member vs Node)**

There are two modes for many of the load balancing algorithms available
to the pool, that can be used as the method to distribute load across
the available pool members of a pool. One algorithm mode is **Member**
and the other mode is **Node**.

The difference between a Member and Node mode for each algorithm is how
it assesses the pool member for the criteria that it uses to make the
load balancing decision.

With Member as the Algorithm mode the algorithm will only look at the
member of the pool as it is defined to assess current connections. With
Node as the algorithm mode the algorithm will look at all current
connections that the Pool member’s node IP has in every pool it is
defined in.

Choosing Member or Node as the mode for the algorithm can directly
affect load distribution in your pools.

|

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K14358

**CMP Effects Load Balancing Methods**

Load balancing behavior for CMP-enabled virtual servers

The BIG-IP system uses a Layer 4 (L4) hash to distribute connections for
a CMP-enabled virtual server among the available TMM processes. The pool
load balancing algorithm is then applied independently in each TMM
instance. Since each TMM handles load balancing independently from the
other TMMs, distribution across the pool members may appear to be
incorrect when compared with a non-CMP enabled virtual server using the
same load balancing algorithm.

Consider the following example configuration:
::

   Virtual Server: 172.16.10.10:80
   
   Pool with 4 members: 10.0.0.1:80, 10.0.0.2:80, 10.0.0.3:80, 10.0.0.4:80
   
   Pool Load Balancing Method: Round Robin
   
   Scenario 1: Virtual server with CMP disabled

Four connections are made to the virtual server; all of which are
processed by TMM. The BIG-IP system load balances the four individual
connections to the four pool members, based on the Round Robin
load-balancing algorithm:
::

   --Connection 1--> \| \| --Connection 1--> TMM0 --> 10.0.0.1:80
   
   --Connection 2--> \|-> BIG-IP Virtual Server ->\| --Connection 2--> TMM0
   --> 10.0.0.2:80
   
   --Connection 3--> \| \| --Connection 3--> TMM0 --> 10.0.0.3:80
   
   --Connection 4--> \| \| --Connection 4--> TMM0 --> 10.0.0.4:80

Scenario 2: Virtual server with CMP enabled

Four connections are made to the virtual server. Unlike the first
scenario where CMP was disabled, the BIG-IP system distributes the
connections across the multiple TMM instances. For example, the BIG-IP
6900 uses four TMM instances. Since each TMM handles load balancing
independently of the other TMM instances, it is possible that all four
connections are directed to the same pool member.
::

   --Connection 1--> \| \| --Connection 1--> TMM0 --> 10.0.0.1:80
   
   --Connection 2--> \|-> BIG-IP Virtual Server ->\| --Connection 2--> TMM1
   --> 10.0.0.1:80
   
   --Connection 3--> \| \| --Connection 3--> TMM2 --> 10.0.0.1:80
   
   --Connection 4--> \| \| --Connection 4--> TMM3 --> 10.0.0.1:80

The CMP feature is designed to speed up connection handling by
distributing connections across multiple TMM instances. While initially
this behavior may appear to favor one or several servers, over time, the
load is distributed equally across all servers.

|

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K5911

**OneConnect**

The BIG-IP OneConnect feature can increase network throughput by
efficiently managing connections created between the BIG-IP system and
back end nodes. OneConnect allows the BIG-IP system to minimize the
number of server-side TCP connections by making existing idle
connections available for reuse by other clients. The OneConnect source
mask setting manages connection reuse, and is applied to the server-side
source IP address of a request to determine its eligibility for
connection reuse.

----

|

**1.18 - Determine the effect that virtual server traffic and/or resource status will have on load balancing decisions**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/5.html

**Load Balancing decisions**

When you create a pool, you assign pool members to the pool. A pool
member is a logical object that represents a physical node (server), on
the network. You then associate the pool with a virtual server on the
BIG-IP system. Once you have assigned a pool to a virtual server, Local
Traffic Manager (LTM) directs traffic coming into the virtual server to
a member of that pool. An individual pool member can belong to one or
multiple pools, depending on how you want to manage your network
traffic.

The specific pool member to which Local Traffic Manager chooses to send
the request is determined by the load balancing method that you have
assigned to that pool. A load balancing method is an algorithm that LTM
uses to select a pool member for processing a request. For example, the
default load balancing method is Round Robin, which causes Local Traffic
Manager to send each incoming request to the next available member of
the pool, thereby distributing requests evenly across the servers in the
pool.

Health monitors are a key feature of Local Traffic Manager. Health
monitors help to ensure that a server is in an up state and able to
receive traffic. When you want to associate a monitor with an entire
pool of servers, you do not need to explicitly associate that monitor
with each individual server. Instead, you can simply assign the monitor
to the pool itself. Local Traffic Manager then automatically monitors
each member of the pool.

With Local Traffic Manager, you can configure your monitor associations
in many useful ways:

-  You can associate a health monitor with an entire pool instead of an
   individual server. In this case, Local Traffic Manager automatically
   associates that monitor with all pool members, including those that
   you add later. Similarly, when you remove a member from a pool, Local
   Traffic Manager no longer monitors that server.

-  When a server that is designated as a pool member allows multiple
   processes to exist on the same IP address and port, you can check the
   health or status of each process. To do this, you can add the server
   to multiple pools, and then within each pool, associate a monitor
   with the that server. The monitor you associate with each server
   checks the health of the process running on that server.

-  When associating a monitor with an entire pool, you can exclude an
   individual pool member from being associated with that monitor. In
   this case, you can associate a different monitor for that particular
   pool member, or you can exclude that pool member from health
   monitoring altogether. For example, you can associate pool members A,
   B, and D with the http monitor, while you associate pool member C
   with the https monitor.

-  You can associate multiple monitors with the same pool. For instance,
   you can associate both the http and https monitors with the same
   pool.

Pool member availability

You can specify a minimum number of health monitors. Before Local
Traffic Manager can report the pool member as being in an up state, this
number of monitors, at a minimum, must report a pool member as being
available to receive traffic.

----

|

**1.18 - Given a scenario, determine the appropriate load balancing methods**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/ltm-concepts-11-5-0/5.html

**Load Balancing Methods**

There are several load balancing methods available within the BIG-IP
system for load balancing traffic to pool members.

+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Method**                                                              | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | **When to use**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+=========================================================================+====================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+=======================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+
| Round Robin                                                             | This is the default load balancing method. Round Robin mode passes each new connection request to the next server in line, eventually distributing connections evenly across the array of machines being load balanced.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Round Robin mode works well in most configurations, especially if the equipment that you are load balancing is roughly equal in processing speed and memory.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Ratio (member) Ratio (node)                                             | Local Traffic Manager distributes connections among pool members or nodes in a static rotation according to ratio weights that you define. In this case, the number of connections that each system receives over time is proportionate to the ratio weight you defined for each pool member or node. You set a ratio weight when you create each pool member or node.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | These are static load balancing methods, basing distribution on user-specified ratio weights that are proportional to the capacity of the servers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Dynamic Ratio (member) Dynamic Ratio (node)                             | The Dynamic Ratio methods select a server based on various aspects of real-time server performance analysis. These methods are similar to the Ratio methods, except that with Dynamic Ratio methods, the ratio weights are system-generated, and the values of the ratio weights are not static. These methods are based on continuous monitoring of the servers, and the ratio weights are therefore continually changing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | The Dynamic Ratio methods are used specifically for load balancing traffic to RealNetworks RealSystem Server platforms, Windows platforms equipped with Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI), or any server equipped with an SNMP agent such as the UC Davis SNMP agent or Windows 2000 Server SNMP agent.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                         | **Note:** To implement Dynamic Ratio load balancing, you must first install and configure the necessary server software for these systems, and then install the appropriate performance monitor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Fastest (node) Fastest (application)                                    | The Fastest methods select a server based on the least number of current sessions. These methods require that you assign both a Layer 7 and a TCP type of profile to the virtual server.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | The Fastest methods are useful in environments where nodes are distributed across separate logical networks.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                         | **Note:** If the OneConnect feature is enabled, the Least Connections methods do not include idle connections in the calculations when selecting a pool member or node. The Least Connections methods use only active connections in their calculations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Least Connections (member) Least Connections (node)                     | The Least Connections methods are relatively simple in that Local Traffic Manager passes a new connection to the pool member or node that has the least number of active connections.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | The Least Connections methods function best in environments where the servers have similar capabilities. Otherwise, some amount of latency can occur. For example, consider the case where a pool has two servers of differing capacities, A and B. Server A has 95 active connections with a connection limit of 100, while server B has 96 active connections with a much larger connection limit of 500. In this case, the Least Connections method selects server A, the server with the lowest number of active connections, even though the server is close to reaching capacity. If you have servers with varying capacities, consider using the Weighted Least Connections methods instead.   |
|                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                         | **Note:** If the OneConnect feature is enabled, the Least Connections methods do not include idle connections in the calculations when selecting a pool member or node. The Least Connections methods use only active connections in their calculations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Weighted Least Connections (member) Weighted Least Connections (node)   | Like the Least Connections methods, these load balancing methods select pool members or nodes based on the number of active connections. However, the Weighted Least Connections methods also base their selections on server capacity. The Weighted Least Connections (member) method specifies that the system uses the value you specify in Connection Limit to establish a proportional algorithm for each pool member. The system bases the load balancing decision on that proportion and the number of current connections to that pool member. For example, member\_a has 20 connections and its connection limit is 100, so it is at 20% of capacity. Similarly, member\_b has 20 connections and its connection limit is 200, so it is at 10% of capacity. In this case, the system select selects member\_b. This algorithm requires all pool members to have a non-zero connection limit specified. The Weighted Least Connections (node) method specifies that the system uses the value you specify in the node's Connection Limit setting and the number of current connections to a node to establish a proportional algorithm. This algorithm requires all nodes used by pool members to have a non-zero connection limit specified. If all servers have equal capacity, these load balancing methods behave in the same way as the Least Connections methods.    | Weighted Least Connections methods work best in environments where the servers have differing capacities. For example, if two servers have the same number of active connections but one server has more capacity than the other, Local Traffic Manager calculates the percentage of capacity being used on each server and uses that percentage in its calculations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                         | **Note:** If the OneConnect feature is enabled, the Weighted Least Connections methods do not include idle connections in the calculations when selecting a pool member or node. The Weighted Least Connections methods use only active connections in their calculations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Observed (member) Observed (node)                                       | With the Observed methods, nodes are ranked based on the number of connections. The Observed methods track the number of Layer 4 connections to each node over time and create a ratio for load balancing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | The need for the Observed methods is rare, and they are not recommended for large pools.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Predictive (member) Predictive (node)                                   | The Predictive methods use the ranking methods used by the Observed methods, where servers are rated according to the number of current connections. However, with the Predictive methods, Local Traffic Manager analyzes the trend of the ranking over time, determining whether a node’s performance is currently improving or declining. The servers with performance rankings that are currently improving, rather than declining, receive a higher proportion of the connections.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | The need for the Predictive methods is rare, and they are not recommend for large pools.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Least Sessions                                                          | The Least Sessions method selects the server that currently has the least number of entries in the persistence table. Use of this load balancing method requires that the virtual server reference a type of profile that tracks persistence connections, such as the Source Address Affinity or Universal profile type.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | The Least Sessions method works best in environments where the servers or other equipment that you are load balancing have similar capabilities.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                         | **Note:** The Least Sessions methods are incompatible with cookie persistence.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Ratio Least Connections                                                 | The Ratio Least Connections methods cause the system to select the pool member according to the ratio of the number of connections that each pool member has active.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

|


Objective - 1.19 - Describe how to deploy and modify applications using existing and/or updated iApp application templates
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

|
|

**1.19 - (Supplemental Example) Describe how to deploy and modify applications using existing and/or updated iApp application templates**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-iapps-developer-11-4-0/2.html

iApps is the BIG-IP system framework for deploying services-based,
template-driven configurations on BIG-IP systems running TMOS 11.0.0 and
later. iApps allows creation of application-centric configuration
interfaces on BIG-IP systems, reducing configuration time and increasing
accuracy of complex traffic management configurations.

**Deploying an application service**

The following procedure covers the minimum steps needed to deploy a
configuration using an iApps application service.

1. On the Main tab, expand iApp, and click Application Services.

2. Click Create.

3. In the Name field, type the name for your application service.

4. From the Template List menu, select a template for your application, and wait for the screen to automatically refresh.

5. Configure remaining settings as needed.

6. At the bottom of the screen click Finished to save your changes.

7. Wait for the application properties to load.

8. (Optional) In the Description field, enter information to describe this application service and click Update.

Your application service is now deployed on the BIG-IP system.

**Modifying an application service**

The following procedure tells how to modify an existing application
service.

1. On the Main tab, expand iApp, and click Application Services.

2. From the Application Service List, select an application service to view.

3. Click the Reconfigure tab. The screen displays the settings for the application service.

4. Click the Components tab and use the components tree to view the components that belong to the application service.

5. Edit the fields that require modification and then click Finished to save your changes.

The system saves the application service modifications and they are
ready to use.

----

|

**1.19 - Identify use cases for deploying application templates**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13422

**iApp templates**

Templates are normally named after the application for which they are
created.

An iApp template bundles the configuration options for a particular
application. Each iApp template is user-customizable and allows you to
easily edit the configuration it creates. Using an iApp template to
build your application-specific configuration reduces configuration
errors and can protect against accidental changes to the configuration,
making it simpler for you to manage the application.

The HTTP iApp template is common for most websites and web applications.

**Current F5 supported iApps**

-  Acceleration Disable by Cookie

-  Citrix XenApp / XenDesktop

-  F5 Analytics

-  HTTP iApp template

-  Microsoft Active Directory Federation Services

-  Microsoft Dynamics CRM 2011 and 2013

-  Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 and 2013 Client Access servers

-  Microsoft Exchange 2016 Mailbox servers

-  Microsoft Lync Server 2010 and 2013

-  Microsoft Office 365 IdP

-  Microsoft Remote Desktop Gateway servers

-  Microsoft Remote Desktop Session Host servers

-  Microsoft SharePoint Server 2010 and 2013

-  NIST SP-800-53r4

-  SSL Intercept

-  VMware View and Horizon View

Note: F5 also supports all iApp templates that ship, by default, with
the BIG-IP system.

----

|

**1.19 - Describe how to locate, retrieve, and import new updated application templates**

https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K13422

**Downloading and installing F5 supported iApp templates**

To download and install an iApp template, you can perform the following
procedure:

1. Go to the F5 Downloads site.

2. From the Downloads Overview page, click Find a Download.

The Select a Product Line page displays.

3. From the Product Line column, select iApp-Templates.

4. Read the End User Software License Agreement and either accept the license by clicking I Accept, or cancel the process by clicking Cancel.

If you accept the End User Software License Agreement, the Select a
Download page appears, which shows a table with the file name,
product description, and file size details.

Note: After you accept the End User Software License Agreement, the
system will not present the agreement again for subsequent downloads
that you perform during the same browser session.

5. From the Filename column of the table, select the file named iapps-x.x.x.x.x.zip. For example, the file for the March 2017 iApp release is named iapps-1.0.0.444.0.zip. The Select a Download Method page appears.

6. F5 supports the FTP, HTTP, and HTTPS protocols for downloading files from F5. Select one of the three supported protocols listed by clicking the down arrow button.

A pop-up window appears, prompting you to either open or save the file.

Note: Some browsers save the file to a default location. You can
review your specific browser's documentation to change the default
location of where you want to save files.

7.  Select the option to save the file.

8.  Unzip the zip file to a location accessible from your BIG-IP system.

9.  Log in to the BIG-IP Configuration utility.

10.  From the iApp tab, select Templates.

11.  Click Import.

12.  Select the Overwrite Existing Templates box.

13.  Click Browse.

14.  Browse to the location where you saved the iApp file.

15.  Select the file that corresponds to the iApp version you want to install.

16. Click Upload.

When the upload completes, the iApp is available for use.

**F5 Release Candidate iApp templates**

Release Candidate iApp templates are included in the RELEASE\_CANDIDATES
directory of the iApp package. The Release Candidate iApp templates are
created, tested, and supported by F5. However, the templates differ from
the official F5-supported iApps (those found in the root directory of
the iApp package) in the following ways:

While Release Candidate iApp templates have been tested by F5 engineers,
the templates have not yet passed the extensive automated test suite
required to achieve the official F5-supported iApp status.

Release Candidate iApp templates are supported by F5 only until an
official F5-supported iApp template is provided. Once an official
F5-supported iApp template is available, any previous Release Candidate
versions of the iApp template will no longer be supported. The official
F5-supported iApp templates are supported according to K8986: F5
software support life cycle policy.

Release Candidate iApp templates are not archived. Once an official
F5-supported iApp template is provided, the Release Candidate version is
removed from the iApp package.

Note: The previous versions directory of the iApp package contains only
previous versions of F5-supported iApp templates.

**F5-contributed iApp templates**

F5 creates and tests F5-contributed iApp templates; however, the
templates have not been subjected to thorough regression testing, and F5
does not offer technical support for the templates. For more
information, refer to the online Help and deployment guides. For a list
of the available F5-contributed iApps, refer to the F5 DevCentral
codeshare.

Note: A DevCentral login is required to access this content.

----

|

**1.19 - Describe how to update an existing application that was created from an iApp**

https://support.f5.com/kb/en-us/products/big-ip_ltm/manuals/product/bigip-iapps-developer-11-4-0/2.html

**About the strict updates setting**

When you are working in the Application Services properties screen, and
select the Advanced view, the Strict Updates field is shown. Selecting
Strict Updates protects against accidental changes to an application
service's configuration. The Strict Updates setting is on by default
when an application service is created.

Note: Unless you have a specific reason to turn off strict updates, F5
recommends that you leave the setting on. If you do turn strict updates
off, we do not recommend using Template reentrancy (discussed in the
iApps Template Authoring chapter).

When the strict updates setting is enabled, users can control only
objects that are exposed through the templates.

Note: Even with strict updates enabled, it is possible to enable and
disable some objects using interfaces (such as tmsh or the Configuration
utility) other than the reentrant template. These objects include:

-  nodes

-  pool members

-  virtual addresses

-  virtual servers

**Deploying an application service**

The following procedure covers the minimum steps needed to deploy a
configuration using an iApps application service.

1. On the Main tab, expand iApp, and click Application Services.

2. Click Create.

3. In the Name field, type the name for your application service.

4. From the Template List menu, select a template for your application, and wait for the screen to automatically refresh.

5. Configure remaining settings as needed.

6. At the bottom of the screen click Finished to save your changes.

7. Wait for the application properties to load.

8. (Optional) In the Description field, enter information to describe this application service and click Update.

Your application service is now deployed on the BIG-IP system.

**Modifying an application service**

The following procedure tells how to modify an existing application
service.

1. On the Main tab, expand iApp, and click Application Services.

2. From the Application Service List, select an application service to view.

3. Click the Reconfigure tab. The screen displays the settings for the application service.

4. Click the Components tab and use the components tree to view the components that belong to the application service.

5. Edit the fields that require modification and then click Finished to save your changes.

The system saves the application service modifications and they are
ready to use.

|


